
===== PAGE 1 =====
CHAOS EATER:
Fully Automating Chaos Engineering with Large Language Models
Daisuke Kikuta, Hiroki Ikeuchi, Kengo Tajiri
NTT Corporation
daisuke.kikuta@ntt.com
Project page : https://ntt-dkiku.github.io/chaos-eater
Code : https://github.com/ntt-dkiku/chaos-eater
Demo : https://huggingface.co/spaces/oookiku/chaos-eater
Abstract
Chaos Engineering (CE) is an engineering tech-
nique aimed at improving the resiliency of dis-
tributed systems. It involves artificially inject-
ing specific failures into a distributed system
and observing its behavior in response. Based
on the observation, the system can be proac-
tively improved to handle those failures. Re-
cent CE tools implement the automated exe-
cution of predefined CE experiments. How-
ever, defining these experiments and improving
the system based on the experimental results
still remain manual. To reduce the costs of the
manual operations, we propose CHAOS EATER,
a system for automating the entire CE oper-
ations with Large Language Models (LLMs).
It predefines the agentic workflow according
to a systematic CE cycle and assigns subdi-
vided operations within the workflow to LLMs.
CHAOS EATER targets CE for Kubernetes sys-
tems, which are managed through code (i.e.,
Infrastructure as Code). Therefore, the LLMs
in CHAOS EATER perform software engineer-
ing tasks to complete CE cycles, including re-
quirement definition, code generation, debug-
ging, and testing. We evaluate CHAOS EATER
through case studies on both small and large
Kubernetes systems. The results demonstrate
that it stably completes reasonable single CE
cycles with significantly low time and mone-
tary costs. The CE cycles are also qualitatively
validated by human engineers and LLMs.
1 Introduction
Modern software applications are built on dis-
tributed systems, where the entire systems are com-
posed of networks of subdivided component ser-
vices. This design, known as microservice archi-
tecture (Bucchiarone et al., 2020), enables scalable
and continuous deployment while supporting the
integration of heterogeneous technologies. On the
other hand, the complex dependencies among small
services can lead to unexpected and chaotic behav-
ior in the entire system, even from minor failures.
However, proactively predicting and addressing
such complex behavior is challenging.
To address this and improve the resiliency of
distributed systems, numerous organizations, in-
cluding Netflix, Amazon, and Microsoft, have re-
cently adopted Chaos Engineering (CE) (Basiri
et al., 2016, 2019). Its concept is that rather than
predicting the chaotic behavior, let’s observe it di-
rectly by artificially injecting the failures into the
system. Based on the actual observation, we can
proactively rebuild a new system that is resilient
to the assumed failures. Systematically, CE cycles
through four phases for a target system:
1. Hypothesis: Define steady states (i.e., nor-
mal behavior) of the system and a failure
scenario. Then, make a hypothesis that the
steady states of the system are maintained
even when the failures occur in the scenario.
2. (Chaos) Experiment: Inject the failures into
the system while logging the system’s re-
sponse behavior.
3. Analysis: Analyze the logged data and check
if the hypothesis is satisfied. If so, this CE
cycle is finished here. If not, move to (4).
4. Improvement: Reconfigure the system to sat-
isfy the hypothesis. The reconfigured system
is tested again in (2) and (3), i.e., repeat (2)
to (4) until the hypothesis is satisfied.
In recent years, several CE tools (Netflix, 2012;
Amazon Web Services, 2021; Chaos Mesh, 2021;
Microsoft, 2023) have advanced the automation of
chaos-experiment execution. Moreover, monitor-
ing tools (Prometheus, 2012; Grafana Labs, 2021)
enable automating metric collection, aggregation,
1
arXiv:2501.11107v2  [cs.SE]  16 Apr 2025
===== PAGE 2 =====
and threshold-based testing during chaos experi-
ments. Hence, the experiment and analysis phases
have been mostly automated. However, defining
a hypothesis in the hypothesis phase, planning a
chaos experiment to test the hypothesis in the ex-
periment phase, and reconfiguring the system in
the improvement phase still remain manual. These
manual operations require a complex set of skills,
including domain knowledge in networking and
CE, the ability to interpret system configurations,
logs, and error messages, as well as generative
problem-solving for requirement definition, experi-
ment planning, and system reconfiguration. Conse-
quently, while the costs of these operations remain
high, their automation has not been achieved yet
with existing algorithmic approaches.
We believe that Large Language Models (LLMs)
are the key to overcoming this challenge. LLMs
have recently shown promising capabilities across
a wide range of general tasks required for CE, in-
cluding natural language processing, coding, and
network operation (Zhao et al., 2023; Jiang et al.,
2024; Ahmed et al., 2024; Piovesan et al., 2024).
Moreover, LLMs have demonstrated promising
performance in software engineering (SE) tasks
(Yang et al., 2024b; Cognition Labs, 2024), which
is crucial for automating CE. Infrastructure as Code
(IaC) enables software systems to be managed
through code, and recent CE tools can manage
chaos experiments in the same way. Therefore, CE
operations on software systems can be regarded as
SE tasks, and the promising results in automating
SE tasks suggest the feasibility of automating CE.
Given those general capabilities, domain knowl-
edge in networking, and the compatibility between
IaC and LLMs for SE, LLMs are a strong candidate
for fully automating the CE cycle.
Here, we propose CHAOS EATER, a system for
automating the entire CE cycle with LLMs. It pre-
defines the agentic workflow according to the sys-
tematic CE cycle and assigns subdivided CE op-
erations within the workflow to each LLM with
a specific role. The predefined workflow ensures
that the multiple LLMs collaboratively perform CE
operations as intended. Considering the compatibil-
ity between IaC and LLMs for SE, CHAOS EATER
especially targets CE on Kubernetes (K8s) (Kuber-
netes, 2014) systems, which are software systems
managed through code. Therefore, the LLMs per-
form SE tasks to complete CE cycles, including re-
quirement definition, code generation, debugging,
and testing. In this paper, we present the workflow
design, a set of system prompts for creating LLM
agents for each CE operation, the interface between
LLMs and existing CE tools, and a technique for
conducting consistent and transparent testing.
We evaluate CHAOS EATER through case studies
on both small and large K8s systems. The results
demonstrate that it stably completes reasonable
single CE cycles with significantly low time and
monetary costs ($0.2–0.8 and 11–25m). The va-
lidity of these CE cycles is also confirmed by two
human engineers and three different LLMs.
The main contributions of this paper are orga-
nized as follows:
• We are the first to propose a system for fully
automating the systematic CE cycle with
LLMs, which significantly reduces time and
monetary costs in CE cycles. This proposal
would be a starting point towards the full au-
tomation of system resiliency improvement.
• We make all resources ofCHAOS EATER pub-
lic. This release provides a general develop-
ment practice for constructing complex sys-
tems that combine LLMs and existing tools.
• We evaluate CHAOS EATER quantitatively in
terms of cost and stability, and qualitatively
in detail for each phase by both human en-
gineers and LLMs. The results provide its
fine-grained potential, limitations, and future
directions (see Appendix B).
2 Proposed System: C HAOS EATER
In this section, we describe a technical overview
of CHAOS EATER. Figure 1 shows its simplified
agentic workflow. It takes as input instructions for
the CE cycle (optional) and a folder containing K8s
manifests (Kubernetes, 2014) and a Skaffold con-
figuration file (Google, 2019). In short, K8s mani-
fests are system configuration files that define the
resources (i.e., small services) that constitute a sys-
tem, while a Skaffold configuration file defines the
process to automatically deploy those resources in
a K8s cluster. It then conducts a CE cycle for those
inputs through five divided phases: pre-processing,
hypothesis, experiment, analysis, improvement, and
post-processing phases. Finally, it outputs a sum-
mary of the completed CE cycle and a modified
folder containing K8s manifests that have been re-
configured to satisfy the hypothesis defined in the
hypothesis phase, along with their corresponding
Skaffold configuration file.
In the following, we describe CHAOS EATER’s
2
===== PAGE 3 =====
Figure 1: A simplified agentic workflow of CHAOS EATER. CHAOS EATER follows the workflow to autonomously
complete the systematic CE cycle using LLM agents and existing tools. Note that only the representative inputs and
outputs of agents are illustrated here. The two K8s clusters within the workflow refer to the same one.
workflow design from input to output, breaking it
down into the five phases. Note that, in this paper,
we refer to each LLM assigned a specific role (i.e.,
a subdivided CE operation) as an LLM agent, and
that the underlying LLMs do not require additional
fine-tuning. See Appendix D for implementation
details, including the detailed agentic workflow,
system prompt templates, graphical user interface,
and system deployment.
2.1 Phase 0: Pre-processing
Given the user input, CHAOS EATER first deploys
the user’s system to the K8s cluster by running the
Skaffold configuration file. Then, each LLM agent
sequentially fills in the implicit context of the user’s
input. The filled context includes summary of the
K8s manifests, their potential issues for resiliency
and redundancy, and a possible application, which
will be provided as auxiliary information in the sub-
sequent phases. The filtering of harmful prompts
in user instructions is also performed here.
2.2 Phase 1: Hypothesis
The hypothesis phase defines the system’s re-
siliency for an assumed failure scenario, which
corresponds to the requirements definition from a
fault tolerance perspective. Following the princi-
ples of CE (Basiri et al., 2016), CHAOS EATER first
defines steady states and defines a failure scenario.
Steady-state definition Steady states are ex-
pected, normal behaviors of a system. Each steady
state is defined by a pair of a state value and a
threshold, and a steady state is considered satisfied
when the state value meets the threshold. There-
fore, the state values must be measurable outputs of
the system, such as the number of active resources,
error rates, and response time.
Given the pre-processed user input, an LLM
agent first defines a measurable state critical to
maintaining the system’s application. Another
agent then inspects the current value of the state
using either K8s API or k6 (Grafana Labs, 2021).
The inspection is conducted by a Python or
JavaScript script written by the agent. Based on
the inspected value, an agent defines the threshold
for the state, which, according to the definition of
a steady state, must be satisfied under the current
(normal) state. Finally, an agent adds threshold-
based assertions to the inspection script to generate
a unit test script that validates whether the steady
state is satisfied. These processes are repeated to
list multiple steady states without duplication un-
til an agent determines that the number of steady
states is sufficient. The unit test script is used for
mechanically validating the steady state during the
experiment phase; we call this approach of having
LLMs judge validity through unit test code Valida-
tion as Code (VaC), which ensures consistency and
3
===== PAGE 4 =====
transparency in the validation process.
Failure definition Given the pre-processed user
inputs and the steady states, an LLM agent pro-
poses a failure scenario that may occur in the
system (e.g., a surge in access due to a promo-
tional campaign, cyber attack, etc.), and defines
a sequence of failures that simulate the scenario.
CHAOS EATER employs Chaos Mesh (Chaos Mesh,
2021), a CE tool that can manage chaos experi-
ments on K8s systems through code; therefore, the
failures are selected from ones supported by Chaos
Mesh. After drafting failures, an another agent re-
fines the detailed parameters for each Chaos Mesh
failure, such as the scope of the failure injection,
the failure sub-type, the failure strength. See Ap-
pendix D.3 and D.4.3 for supported failures and
mechanism of defining failures, respectively.
At this point, the hypothesis can be reframed as
all VaC scripts pass, even when the defined failure
injections are performed.
2.3 Phase 2: (Chaos) Experiment
The experiment phase plans a chaos experiment to
validate the hypothesis and executes it.
Experiment planning To enable systematic plan-
ning, we propose dividing a chaos experiment into
three stages: pre-validation, failure-injection, and
post-validation. In the pre-validation stage, VaC
scripts are run to ensure that the steady states are
satisfied under normal conditions. In the failure-
injection stage, failure injections are performed. If
some steady states needs to be validated concur-
rently, the corresponding VaC scripts are also run
here. In the post-validation stage, VaC scripts are
run to ensure that steady states have been properly
recovered after the failure injections.
Given the pre-processed user inputs and the hy-
pothesis, an LLM agent first determines the dura-
tion of each stage. Then, other agents determine
the VaC scripts and failure injections to be executed
in each stage, along with their execution timing and
durations. Finally, an agent writes a summary of
the chaos experiment timeline, which is referenced
during the analysis phase to identify the causes of
the hypothesis not being satisfied in the chaos ex-
periment. The three-stage chaos-experiment plan
is then converted to a Chaos Mesh workflow mani-
fest, which enables automated failure injection and
hypothesis validation via VaC scripts according to
the schedule defined in the manifest. See Appendix
D.4.4 for our proposed algorithm and LLMs’ out-
put format for this conversion.
Experiment replanning Resource types and
metadata of K8s manifests may be reconfigured
during the improvement phase. Therefore, inspec-
tion targets in VaC scripts and scopes of failure
injections must be updated accordingly between
the improvement phase and the next experiment
execution. Given the original and reconfigured K8s
manifests, as well as their previous configurations,
each LLM agent proposes new inspection targets
and new scopes of failure injections. Then, a new
ChaosMesh workflow manifest is generated by up-
dating the corresponding parts in the previous one.
Note that this update only makes minor adjustments
to reflect the changes in K8s manifests, without al-
tering the original intent of the chaos experiment.
Experiment execution After the Chaos Mesh
workflow manifest is generated, CHAOS EATER ap-
plies it to the K8s cluster. Then, the scheduled
failure injections and hypothesis validation are au-
tomatically executed by Chaos Mesh. In the mean-
time, CHAOS EATER simply waits for the experi-
ment to complete.
2.4 Phase 3: Analysis
After the chaos experiment is finished, CHAOS -
EATER mechanically checks whether the VaC
scripts have passed. If all of them have passed, that
means the current system configurations (i.e., K8s
manifests) already satisfy the hypothesis. There-
fore, CHAOS EATER finishes the current CE cycle at
this point and moves to the post-processing phase.
If at least one has failed, CHAOS EATER moves to
the next improvement phase after analyzing the ex-
perimental results. In this analysis, given the K8s
manifests, the timeline of the chaos experiments,
and the list of failed VaC scripts with their logs,
an LLM agent identifies the cause of the fails and
then generates a report containing the causes and
recommended countermeasures.
2.5 Phase 4: Improvement
The improvement phase reconfigures the K8s mani-
fests to satisfy the hypothesis. Given the K8s man-
ifests, the hypothesis, the experiment plan, and
the improvement loop history, an LLM agent re-
configures the K8s manifests so that all the VaC
scripts pass in the chaos experiment. There are
three reconfiguration modes: create,delete,
and replace. The agent first selects modes
4
===== PAGE 5 =====
while specifying file names, and then writes the
reconfigured K8s manifests only when create
or replace is specified. The file management
algorithm of CHAOS EATER then edits the folder
from the previous improvement loop (in the first
improvement, it corresponds to the user’s input
folder) according to the agent’s output.
Improvement loop After the reconfiguration,
CHAOS EATER applies the reconfigured K8s man-
ifests to the K8s cluster. Then, they will be vali-
dated again through the experiment and analysis
phases. That is, as in the systematic CE cycle,
CHAOS -EATER also repeats the experiment, anal-
ysis, improvement phases until the hypothesis is
satisfied. We define this loop as the improvement
loop. The improvement loop history refers to the
history of the experimental results, their analysis
reports, and their reconfigurations within this im-
provement loop, which suppresses the repetition of
the same reconfiguration.
2.6 Extra Phase: Post-processing
After the CE cycle is completed, CHAOS EATER
finalizes its entire process by summarizing the com-
pleted CE cycle. An LLM agent summarizes the
user’s input and the four completed phases. Finally,
CHAOS EATER provides the user with the summary
of the completed CE cycle and the folder contain-
ing K8s manifests that have been reconfigured to
satisfy the hypothesis defined in the hypothesis
phase, along with their Skaffold configuration file.
3 Case Study
CE cycles should not be evaluated solely based
on whether appropriate reconfigurations are per-
formed; it is equally important to evaluate whether
each phase leading up to it is meaningful. There-
fore, rather than creating a benchmark that quanti-
fies evaluation in the binary manner, we here eval-
uate CHAOS EATER through in-depth case studies
focused on two critical cases.
The first case, NGINX , is a small-scale sys-
tem consisting of two K8s manifests (i.e., two re-
sources): pod.yaml andservice.yaml. The
former defines a Pod resource including a Ng-
inx server, and the latter defines Service re-
source routing TCP traffic to the Pod. To ver-
ify whether CHAOS EATER can improve the sys-
tem when there are resiliency issues, we inten-
tionally configure the resource with a non-resilient
setting; we set restartPolicy to Never in
Pod.yaml. With this configuration, once the
Pod goes down, it will never restart, resulting
in extended service outages. The second case,
SOCK SHOP (Weaveworks, 2023), is a practical
and large-scale e-commerce system that consists
of 29 manifests, which define the resources and
databases for front-end pages, user information,
order, payment, shipping, and so on. The num-
ber of replicas of all theDeployment resources
is originally set to one. However, this setting
could lead to downtime of the single replica when
it goes down. To narrow down this original re-
siliency issue to a single point, we increase the
replicas for Deployment resources other than
front-end-dep.yaml to two, while keeping a
single replica forfront-end-dep.yaml. This
relatively reduces the redundancy/resiliency of the
front-end resource. In this case study, we validate
whether CHAOS EATER correctly identifies and ad-
dresses these resiliency issues through a reasonable
CE cycle.
To maintain the autonomy of CHAOS EATER, we
input only the instruction to keep each chaos ex-
periment within one minute (access methods are
also input for SOCK SHOP). We use gpt-4o-2024-
08-06 (OpenAI, 2024) as the underlying LLMs. To
improve the reproducibility of this case study, its
temperature is set to 0 with the random seed fixed
at 42. We run a single CE cycle for each system
five times under the same settings. In the follow-
ing, we first discuss quantitative metrics and then
qualitatively validate the operations within single
CE cycles by LLM-as-a-judge and human engi-
neers. See Appendix C and E for more details on
the evaluation and results.
Costs and stability Table 1 shows the time and
monetary costs of single CE cycles for each target
system. Although we do not have statistical data on
the actual working time and labor costs for the same
CE cycles performed by human engineers, these to-
tal operational time and monetary costs ($0.21 and
11m) are obviously lower than that. For SOCK -
SHOP, the monetary cost increases by approxi-
mately four times ($0.84), and the time doubled
(25m). However, these values are still intuitively
lower than those of human engineers. Even with
the number of resources increasing by more than
ten times compared to NGINX , the cost increase re-
mains minimal, demonstrating that CHAOS EATER
maintains low costs even for large-scale systems.
In terms of stability, CHAOS EATER successfully
5
===== PAGE 6 =====
"stressors": {
    "cpu": {
      "workers": 2,
      "load": 80
    }
  },
  "containerNames": [
    "carts-db“
  ]
}
"mode": "all",
  "selector": {
    "namespaces": ["default"],
    "labelSelectors": {
      "app": "example"
    }
  },
  "device": "eth0",
  "delay": {
    "latency": "100ms",
    "jitter": "10ms",
    "correlation": "50"
 }
}
#1: The Pod should be running at least 90% of the time during the check period
#2: Service availability should be at least 99.9% with a response status of 200
Post-validFailure-injectionPre-valid
def check_pod_status(self, namespace, pod_name):
 try:
  pod = self.v1.read_namespaced_pod(
   name=pod_name, namespace=namespace)
  return pod.status.phase=='Running’
 except client.exceptions.ApiException as e:
  return False
def test_pod_running_state(self, duration):
 namespace = 'default’; pod_name = 'example-pod’
 running_count=0
 for _ in range(duration):
  if self.check_pod_status(
      namespace, pod_name):
   running_count+=1; time.sleep(1)
 running_percentage=(running_count/duration)*100
 assert running_percentage>=90
VaC script for steady state #1 (VaC #1)
NGINX SOCKSHOP
Experiment
Steady states
{
  "action": "pod-kill",
  "mode": "one",
  "selector": {
    "namespaces": [
      "default"
    ],
    "labelSelectors": {
      "app": "example"
    }
  }
}
PodChaos
{
  "action": "delay",
  "direction": "to",
  "target": {
    "mode": "all",
    "selector": {
      "namespaces": ["default"],
      "labelSelectors": {
        "app": "example"
      }
    }
  },
NetworkChaos
Failure Scenario: Cyberattack
1.Pod Restart Policy and Single Pod Deployment:
The 'fault-unittest-example-pod-running' test failed because the Pod was not found after the PodChaos fault 
was injected. This is directly related to the Pod's restart policy set to 'Never' in the nginx/pod.yaml manifest. 
When the Pod was killed, it did not restart, leading to a 404 error when attempting to read the Pod's status. 
This confirms the identified issue #0 (Pod Restart Policy) and issue #1 (Single Pod Deployment), where the 
lack of redundancy and automatic recovery mechanisms resulted in the Pod being unavailable.
...
Insights and Recommendations:
• Pod Restart Policy: Change the Pod's restart policy from 'Never' to 'Always' or 'OnFailure' to ensure that 
  the Pod automatically restarts if it fails. This will help maintain the Pod's availability and reduce downtime.
• Redundancy and Scalability: Implement a Deployment or ReplicaSet to manage the Pod. 
  This will provide redundancy by running multiple replicas of the Pod, ensuring that the Service remains 
  available even if one Pod fails.
...
Analysis report
15s
5s
5s
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
 name: example-deployment
 labels:
  app: example
spec:
 replicas: 3
 selector:
  matchLabels:
   app: example
 template:
  metadata:
   labels:
    app: example
  spec:
   containers:
   - name: example-container
    image: nginx:1.17.1
    ports:
    - containerPort: 80
Reconfigured pod.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
 name: example-pod
 labels:
  app: example
spec:
 restartPolicy: Never
 containers:
 - name: example-
container
  image: nginx:1.17.1
  ports:
  - containerPort: 80
Original pod.yaml
def check_deployment_pods(
  namespace,
  deployment_name
):
 try:
  pods = self.v1.list_namespaced_pod(
      namespace=namespace,
   label_selector=f'app={deployment_name}').items
  running_pods = [
      pod for pod in pods
      if pod.status.phase == 'Running’
    ]
  return len(running_pods) > 0
 except client.exceptions.ApiException as e:
  return False
Replanning: check_pod_status() is replaced 
with the following function in VaC #2
Experiment
Steady states
def test_replicas_threshold(self):
 total_checks = 0; replicas_count = 0; full_replicas_count = 0
 for _ in range(self.duration):
  try:
    deployment = self.apps_v1.read_namespaced_deployment(
        self.deployment_name, self.namespace)
   replicas = deployment.status.replicas
   ready_replicas = deployment.status.ready_replicas
   total_checks += 1
   if ready_replicas >= 1: replicas_count += 1
   if ready_replicas == 2: fullreplicas_count += 1
  except client.exceptions.ApiException as e: pass
  time.sleep(1)
one_ready_percentage = (replicas_count/total_checks)*100
two_ready_percentage=(full_replicas_count/total_checks)*100
assert one_ready_percentage == 100
assert two_ready_percentage >= 80
def test_steady_state(self):
 replicas_count = 0
 for _ in range(self.duration):
  resp = self.apps_v1.
      read_namespaced_deployment_status(
        self.deployment_name,
        self.namespace)
  ready_replicas = 
      resp.status.ready_replicas or 0
  if ready_replicas >= 1: 
      replicas_count += 1
  time.sleep(1)
readiness_percentage = (
  replicas_count / self.duration) * 100
print(f"{self.deployment_name} was ready
  {replicas_count}/{self.duration} times.")
assert readiness_percentage == 100
VaC script for cart-db steady state #1 (VaC #1) VaC script for front-end 
steady state #2 (VaC #2)
{
  "mode": "all",   
  "selector": {
    "namespaces": ["sock-shop“],
    "labelSelectors": {
      "name": "carts-db“
    }
  },
  
StressChaos
{
  "action": "pod-kill",
  "mode": "one",   
  "selector":{
    "namespaces": ["sock-shop“],
    "labelSelectors": {
      "name": "front-end“
    }
  },
  "value": "1“
}
PodChaos
Failure Scenario: Black Friday Sale
Fault-Injected Phase:
The 'front-end-replica' test failed during the fault-injection phase. The 'PodChaos' fault, which involved killing the 'front-end' 
pod, resulted in 0 ready replicas throughout the test duration. This failure highlights the critical issue of having only a s ingle 
replica for the 'front-end' deployment, making it a single point of failure. The system was unable to recover or maintain 
availability when the single pod was terminated.
...
Insights and Recommendations: he failure of the 'front-end' deployment to maintain its steady state during and after the 
fault-injection phase underscores the importance of addressing the 'Single Replica Deployment' issue. To improve resilience, it 
is recommended to increase the number of replicas for the 'front-end' deployment. This will ensure that the system can 
maintain availability even if one pod fails.
...
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
 name: front-end
 namespace: sock-shop
spec:
 replicas: 1
 selector:
  matchLabels:
   name: front-end
 template:
  metadata:
   labels:
    name: front-end
  spec:
   containers:
   - name: front-end
    image: weaveworksdemos/
          front-end:0.3.12
...
Original front-end.yaml
Reconfigure
export const options = {
  vus: 1,
 duration: '5s',
 thresholds: {
   'http_req_failed': ['rate<=0.001'],
 },
};
export default function () {
  const res = http.get(
    'http://example-service.default.svc.
    cluster.local:80');
 check(res, {
   'status is 200': (r) 
      => r.status === 200,
 });
}
VaC script for steady state #2 
(VaC #2)
#1: At least 1 ready replica 100% of the time and 2 ready replicas 80% of the time during the monitoring period
#2: At least 1 ready replica must be present 100% of the time during the monitoring period
HypothesisHypothesis
Chaos Experiment Chaos Experiment
Analysis
Improvement Improvement
Analysis
Analysis report
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
 name: front-end
 namespace: sock-shop
spec:
 replicas: 2
 selector:
  matchLabels:
   name: front-end
 template:
  metadata:
   labels:
    name: front-end
  spec:
   containers:
   - name: front-end
    image: weaveworksdemos/
          front-end:0.3.12
...
Reconfigured front-end.yaml
Reconfigure
VaC #1
VaC #2
15s
5s
6s
VaC #1
VaC #2
2s
30s
20s
10s
VaC #1
VaC #2
20s
10s
PodChaos
NetworkChaos
20s
VaC #1
VaC #2
10s
10s
StressChaos
PodChaos
Post-validFailure-injectionPre-valid
20s
VaC #1
VaC #2
20s
VaC #1
VaC #2
10s
Figure 2: The highlighted outputs for N GINX and SOCK SHOP. See Appendix E.1 and E.3 for their full versions.
completes the CE cycle for each system without
runtime errors in all five runs. It also correctly
reconfigures NGINX in all five runs and SOCK -
SHOP in four out of five runs. Even in the non-
reconfigured case, we confirm that a valid CE cycle
is completed without requiring reconfigurations.
Qualitative validation To validate CE opera-
tions completed by CHAOS EATER, we select one
of the five runs for each target system and qual-
itatively evaluate the four phases and the overall
process using a five-point scale. Here, the scale is
designed so that a score of 3 or higher is a positive
rating. The evaluators are two external human engi-
neers and three LLMs: GPT-4o, Claude Sonnet 3.5,
and Gemini Pro 1.5. The LLM evaluators evaluate
each CE cycle five times with a temperature of 0,
and the final score is calculated as the average of
these five evaluations. See Appendix C for details
on the evaluation scale and other settings.
6
===== PAGE 7 =====
Table 1: Time and monetary costs of single CE cycles conducted by CHAOS EATER. The values for each phase are
averaged across runs that did not skip that phase, while the values for overall are averaged across runs that involved
system reconfiguration. API costs are calculated from the official OpenAI API pricing table in September 2024.
Abbreviations of each phase name are as follows: ‘All’ is the overall process; ‘Pre’ is pre-processing; ‘Hyp.’ is
hypothesis; ‘Expt.’ is experiment; ‘Anlys.’ is analysis; ‘Imp.’ is improvement; ‘Post’ is post-processing.
NGNIX SOCK SHOP
Metric All Pre Hyp. Expt. Anlys. Imp. Post All Pre Hyp. Expt. Anlys. Imp. Post
Input tokens 59k 2.6k 25k 13k 4.4k 5.5k 8.2k 284k 30k 150k 57k 14k 15k 18k
Output tokens 5.9k 0.5k 2.5k 1.7k 0.6k 0.2k 0.4k 13k 5.7k 3.8k 1.8k 0.7k 0.6k 0.5k
API cost ($) 0.21 0.01 0.09 0.05 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.84 0.13 0.41 0.16 0.04 0.04 0.05
Time 11m 21s 2.6m 4.4m 50s 12s 21s 25m 4.6m 4.3m 3.3m 36s 4.3m 21s
Figure 3: Qualitative evaluation results of CE cycles for each system. A score of 3 or higher is a positive rating.
Figure 2 shows the highlighted outputs from the
evaluated cycles for NGINX and SOCK SHOP. For
both cases, CHAOS EATER defined pod availability
as one of the steady states, and then hypothesized
that they are maintained even in scenarios where
Pods go down, such as cyberattacks or Black Fri-
day sales. Through these experiments, it success-
fully identified the issues of restartPolicy
and the number of replicas, and solved them by
replacingPod with aDeployment resource and
increasing the number of replicas, respectively. The
authors have qualitatively confirmed that these op-
erations are appropriate for addressing the issues
intentionally introduced into the original systems.
Figure 3 shows the results of the qualitative eval-
uation of the two cycles conducted by the evalua-
tors. The results show that all evaluators rated every
phase above the threshold for a positive rating for
both systems, demonstrating that CHAOS EATER
completed reasonable single CE cycles. In their re-
views, they pointed out the need for additional CE
cycles to achieve broader resiliency improvement
and suggested the inclusion of more complex fail-
ure sequences, such as cases where a single failure
indirectly affects multiple resources through com-
plex dependencies. However, all of them agreed
that, as a single CE cycle addressing the given is-
sues, the operations are effective and appropriate.
In conclusion, the validity of the CE cycles is con-
firmed by the authors, the human engineers, and
LLMs. See Appendix E for more detailed descrip-
tions of the CHAOS EATER’s outputs and the full
text of the reviews.
4 Conclusion
In this paper, we proposedCHAOS EATER, an LLM-
based system for fully automating single CE cycles.
We presented its technical details and validated it
through case studies on small and large K8s sys-
tems. The results demonstrated that CHAOS EATER
successfully completes reasonable single CE cycles
with significantly low time and monetary costs.
On the other hand, the current version has sev-
eral limitations, such as restriction to development
environments, support only for K8s manifest recon-
figuration, and limited capability in vulnerability
discovery (see Appendix B for comprehensive dis-
cussion on limitations and future directions). As
the automatic generation of software applications
by LLMs has become widespread in recent years,
the automation of improving their infrastructure
resiliency is becoming increasingly important. To
support this, we will improve CHAOS EATER by
addressing its current limitations.
7
===== PAGE 8 =====
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank NTT TechnoCross mem-
bers, especially Kensuke Yagura, Yoshitaka Sado-
hara, and Tamotsu Ohyama, for trying out
CHAOS EATER and sharing their valuable feedback.
We also thank the anonymous reviewers for their
constructive feedback and valuable suggestions. Fi-
nally, the CHAOS EATER would not have been pos-
sible without LLM providers and relevant OSS
projects. We deeply appreciate their continuous
efforts and dedication.
References
Tasnim Ahmed, Nicola Piovesan, Antonio De
Domenico, and Salimur Choudhury. 2024. Linguistic
intelligence in large language models for telecommu-
nications.
Peter Alvaro, Kolton Andrus, Chris Sanden, Casey
Rosenthal, Ali Basiri, and Lorin Hochstein. 2016.
Automating failure testing research at internet scale.
In Proceedings of the Seventh ACM Symposium on
Cloud Computing, SoCC ’16, page 17–28, New York,
NY , USA. Association for Computing Machinery.
Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell Nye, Maarten
Bosma, Henryk Michalewski, David Dohan, Ellen
Jiang, Carrie Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc Le, and
Charles Sutton. 2021. Program synthesis with large
language models. Preprint, arXiv:2108.07732.
Lina Bariah, Hang Zou, Qiyang Zhao, Belkacem
Mouhouche, Faouzi Bader, and Merouane Debbah.
2023. Understanding telecom language through large
language models. Preprint, arXiv:2306.07933.
Ali Basiri, Niosha Behnam, Ruud de Rooij, Lorin
Hochstein, Luke Kosewski, Justin Reynolds, and
Casey Rosenthal. 2016. Chaos engineering. IEEE
Software, 33(3):35–41.
Ali Basiri, Lorin Hochstein, Nora Jones, and Haley
Tucker. 2019. Automating chaos experiments in pro-
duction. In 2019 IEEE/ACM 41st International Con-
ference on Software Engineering: Software Engineer-
ing in Practice (ICSE-SEIP), pages 31–40.
Martin Bedoya, Sara Palacios, Daniel Díaz-López, Es-
tefania Laverde, and Pantaleone Nespoli. 2024. En-
hancing devsecops practice with large language mod-
els and security chaos engineering. International
Journal of Information Security, 23:3765–3788.
Antonio Bucchiarone, Nicola Dragoni, Schahram Dust-
dar, Patricia Lago, Manuel Mazzara, Victor Rivera,
and Andrey Sadovykh, editors. 2020. Microservices,
Science and Engineering. Springer.
Bei Chen, Fengji Zhang, Anh Nguyen, Daoguang
Zan, Zeqi Lin, Jian-Guang Lou, and Weizhu Chen.
2022. Codet: Code generation with generated tests.
Preprint, arXiv:2207.10397.
Hongyang Chen, Pengfei Chen, Guangba Yu, Xiaoyun
Li, and Zilong He. 2024. Microfi: Non-intrusive and
prioritized request-level fault injection for microser-
vice applications. IEEE Transactions on Dependable
and Secure Computing, 21(5):4921–4938.
Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming
Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared Ka-
plan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph,
Greg Brockman, Alex Ray, Raul Puri, Gretchen
Krueger, Michael Petrov, Heidy Khlaaf, Girish Sas-
try, Pamela Mishkin, Brooke Chan, Scott Gray,
Nick Ryder, Mikhail Pavlov, Alethea Power, Lukasz
Kaiser, Mohammad Bavarian, Clemens Winter,
Philippe Tillet, Felipe Petroski Such, Dave Cum-
mings, Matthias Plappert, Fotios Chantzis, Eliza-
beth Barnes, Ariel Herbert-V oss, William Hebgen
Guss, Alex Nichol, Alex Paino, Nikolas Tezak, Jie
Tang, Igor Babuschkin, Suchir Balaji, Shantanu Jain,
William Saunders, Christopher Hesse, Andrew N.
Carr, Jan Leike, Josh Achiam, Vedant Misra, Evan
Morikawa, Alec Radford, Matthew Knight, Miles
Brundage, Mira Murati, Katie Mayer, Peter Welinder,
Bob McGrew, Dario Amodei, Sam McCandlish, Ilya
Sutskever, and Wojciech Zaremba. 2021. Evaluat-
ing large language models trained on code. Preprint,
arXiv:2107.03374.
Yinfang Chen, Manish Shetty, Gagan Somashekar,
Minghua Ma, Yogesh Simmhan, Jonathan Mace,
Chetan Bansal, Rujia Wang, and Saravan Rajmohan.
2025. Aiopslab: A holistic framework to evaluate
ai agents for enabling autonomous clouds. Preprint,
arXiv:2501.06706.
Suman De. 2021. A study on chaos engineering for
improving cloud software quality and reliability. In
2021 International Conference on Disruptive Tech-
nologies for Multi-Disciplinary Research and Appli-
cations (CENTCON), volume 1, pages 289–294.
Firefly. 2022. Aiac (github repository).
Google. 2019. Skaffold (github repository).
Jiawei Gu, Xuhui Jiang, Zhichao Shi, Hexiang Tan,
Xuehao Zhai, Chengjin Xu, Wei Li, Yinghan Shen,
Shengjie Ma, Honghao Liu, Saizhuo Wang, Kun
Zhang, Yuanzhuo Wang, Wen Gao, Lionel Ni,
and Jian Guo. 2025. A survey on llm-as-a-judge.
Preprint, arXiv:2411.15594.
Daya Guo, Qihao Zhu, Dejian Yang, Zhenda Xie, Kai
Dong, Wentao Zhang, Guanting Chen, Xiao Bi,
Y . Wu, Y . K. Li, Fuli Luo, Yingfei Xiong, and Wen-
feng Liang. 2024. Deepseek-coder: When the large
language model meets programming – the rise of
code intelligence. Preprint, arXiv:2401.14196.
Cho-Jui Hsieh, Si Si, Felix Yu, and Inderjit Dhillon.
2024. Automatic engineering of long prompts. In
Findings of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics: ACL 2024, pages 10672–10685, Bangkok,
Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics.
8
===== PAGE 9 =====
Shengran Hu, Cong Lu, and Jeff Clune. 2024. Au-
tomated design of agentic systems. Preprint,
arXiv:2408.08435.
Yudong Huang, Hongyang Du, Xinyuan Zhang, Dusit
Niyato, Jiawen Kang, Zehui Xiong, Shuo Wang,
and Tao Huang. 2023. Large language models for
networking: Applications, enabling techniques, and
challenges.
Hiroki Ikeuchi, Akio Watanabe, and Yousuke Takahashi.
2023. Coverage based failure injection toward effi-
cient chaos engineering. In ICC 2023 - IEEE In-
ternational Conference on Communications, pages
4571–4577.
Juyong Jiang, Fan Wang, Jiasi Shen, Sungju Kim,
and Sunghun Kim. 2024. A survey on large
language models for code generation. Preprint,
arXiv:2406.00515.
Shuyang Jiang, Yuhao Wang, and Yu Wang. 2023. Self-
evolve: A code evolution framework via large lan-
guage models. Preprint, arXiv:2306.02907.
K8sGPT. 2023. K8sgpt (github repository).
Imtiaz Karim, Kazi Samin Mubasshir, Mirza Masfiqur
Rahman, and Elisa Bertino. 2023. SPEC5G: A
dataset for 5G cellular network protocol analysis.
In Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: IJCNLP-AACL 2023 (Findings), pages
20–38, Nusa Dua, Bali. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Dominik Kesim, André van Hoorn, Sebastian Frank,
and Matthias Haussler. 2020. Identifying and prior-
itizing chaos experiments by using established risk
analysis techniques. pages 229–240.
Tushar Khot, Harsh Trivedi, Matthew Finlayson, Yao
Fu, Kyle Richardson, Peter Clark, and Ashish Sab-
harwal. 2023. Decomposed prompting: A modular
approach for solving complex tasks. In The Eleventh
International Conference on Learning Representa-
tions.
Kubernetes. 2014. Kubernetes (github repository).
Kubernetes. 2018. kind (github repository).
Minchan Kwon, Gaeun Kim, Jongsuk Kim, Haeil Lee,
and Junmo Kim. 2024. StablePrompt : Automatic
prompt tuning using reinforcement learning for large
language model. In Proceedings of the 2024 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, pages 9868–9884, Miami, Florida, USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
LangChain. 2023. Langchain (github repository).
Zelong Li, Shuyuan Xu, Kai Mei, Wenyue Hua, Bal-
aji Rama, Om Raheja, Hao Wang, He Zhu, and
Yongfeng Zhang. 2024. Autoflow: Automated work-
flow generation for large language model agents.
Preprint, arXiv:2407.12821.
Ali Maatouk, Fadhel Ayed, Nicola Piovesan, Anto-
nio De Domenico, Merouane Debbah, and Zhi-Quan
Luo. 2023. Teleqna: A benchmark dataset to assess
large language models telecommunications knowl-
edge. Preprint, arXiv:2310.15051.
Ehud Malul, Yair Meidan, Dudu Mimran, Yuval
Elovici, and Asaf Shabtai. 2024. Genkubesec: Llm-
based kubernetes misconfiguration detection, lo-
calization, reasoning, and remediation. Preprint,
arXiv:2405.19954.
Yukai Miao, Yu Bai, Li Chen, Dan Li, Haifeng Sun,
Xizheng Wang, Ziqiu Luo, Yanyu Ren, Dapeng Sun,
Xiuting Xu, Qi Zhang, Chao Xiang, and Xinchi
Li. 2023. An empirical study of netops capabil-
ity of pre-trained large language models. Preprint,
arXiv:2309.05557.
Microsoft. 2023. Azure chaos studio (product page).
Netflix. 2012. Chaos monkey (github repository).
OpenAI. 2024. Gpt-4o system card. Preprint,
arXiv:2410.21276.
Nicola Piovesan, Antonio De Domenico, and Fadhel
Ayed. 2024. Telecom language models: Must they
be large? Preprint, arXiv:2403.04666.
Prometheus. 2012. Prometheus (github repository).
Reid Pryzant, Dan Iter, Jerry Li, Yin Tat Lee, Chen-
guang Zhu, and Michael Zeng. 2023. Automatic
prompt optimization with ”gradient descent” and
beam search. In The 2023 Conference on Empiri-
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing.
Pulumi. 2023. Pulumi ai (github repository).
Robusta. 2023. Kubernetes chatgpt bot (github reposi-
tory).
Baptiste Rozière, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Sten
Sootla, Itai Gat, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Yossi Adi,
Jingyu Liu, Romain Sauvestre, Tal Remez, Jérémy
Rapin, Artyom Kozhevnikov, Ivan Evtimov, Joanna
Bitton, Manish Bhatt, Cristian Canton Ferrer, Aaron
Grattafiori, Wenhan Xiong, Alexandre Défossez,
Jade Copet, Faisal Azhar, Hugo Touvron, Louis Mar-
tin, Nicolas Usunier, Thomas Scialom, and Gabriel
Synnaeve. 2024. Code llama: Open foundation mod-
els for code. Preprint, arXiv:2308.12950.
Ojaswa Sharma, Mudit Verma, Saumya Bhadauria, and
Praveen Jayachandran. 2022. A guided approach
towards complex chaos selection, prioritisation and
injection. In 2022 IEEE 15th International Confer-
ence on Cloud Computing (CLOUD), pages 91–93.
Snowflake. 2020. Streamlit (github repository).
Hong Sun, Xue Li, Yinchuan Xu, Youkow Homma,
Qi Cao, Min Wu, Jian Jiao, and Denis Charles. 2023.
Autohint: Automatic prompt optimization with hint
generation. Preprint, arXiv:2307.07415.
9
===== PAGE 10 =====
Amazon Web Services. 2021. Aws fault injection ser-
vice (product page).
Chaos Mesh. 2021. Chaos mesh (github repository).
Cognition Labs. 2024. Introducing devin, the first ai
software engineer (official blog).
Grafana Labs. 2021. k6 (github repository).
Kennedy A. Torkura, Muhammad I.H. Sukmana, Feng
Cheng, and Christoph Meinel. 2019. Security chaos
engineering for cloud services: Work in progress. In
2019 IEEE 18th International Symposium on Net-
work Computing and Applications (NCA), pages 1–3.
Weaveworks. 2023. Sock shop (github repository
(archived in 2023)).
Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yinlin Deng, Soren Dunn, and
Lingming Zhang. 2024. Agentless: Demystifying
llm-based software engineering agents. Preprint,
arXiv:2407.01489.
Chengrun Yang, Xuezhi Wang, Yifeng Lu, Hanxiao
Liu, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou, and Xinyun Chen.
2024a. Large language models as optimizers. In
The Twelfth International Conference on Learning
Representations.
John Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian
Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Ofir
Press. 2024b. Swe-agent: Agent-computer interfaces
enable automated software engineering. Preprint,
arXiv:2405.15793.
Jiayi Zhang, Jinyu Xiang, Zhaoyang Yu, Fengwei Teng,
Xionghui Chen, Jiaqi Chen, Mingchen Zhuge, Xin
Cheng, Sirui Hong, Jinlin Wang, Bingnan Zheng,
Bang Liu, Yuyu Luo, and Chenglin Wu. 2024. Aflow:
Automating agentic workflow generation. Preprint,
arXiv:2410.10762.
Wayne Xin Zhao, Kun Zhou, Junyi Li, Tianyi Tang,
Xiaolei Wang, Yupeng Hou, Yingqian Min, Beichen
Zhang, Junjie Zhang, Zican Dong, Yifan Du, Chen
Yang, Yushuo Chen, Zhipeng Chen, Jinhao Jiang,
Ruiyang Ren, Yifan Li, Xinyu Tang, Zikang Liu,
Peiyu Liu, Jian-Yun Nie, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2023. A
survey of large language models.
Wangchunshu Zhou, Yixin Ou, Shengwei Ding, Long
Li, Jialong Wu, Tiannan Wang, Jiamin Chen,
Shuai Wang, Xiaohua Xu, Ningyu Zhang, Hua-
jun Chen, and Yuchen Eleanor Jiang. 2024. Sym-
bolic learning enables self-evolving agents. Preprint,
arXiv:2406.18532.
Mingchen Zhuge, Wenyi Wang, Louis Kirsch,
Francesco Faccio, Dmitrii Khizbullin, and Jürgen
Schmidhuber. 2024. GPTSwarm: Language agents
as optimizable graphs. In Forty-first International
Conference on Machine Learning.
Sertaç Özercan. 2023. Kubectl ai (github repository).
A Related Work
Chaos engineering Since Basiri et al. (2016) in-
troduced its name, CE has gained attention and
is currently employed in various services (Basiri
et al., 2019; De, 2021). The major research ques-
tion of CE is how we can efficiently test mean-
ingful failures to identify system vulnerability. To
address this, various optimization methods for fail-
ure selection have been proposed (Alvaro et al.,
2016; Torkura et al., 2019; Kesim et al., 2020;
Sharma et al., 2022; Ikeuchi et al., 2023; Chen et al.,
2024). In application, several automation tools
have been developed in both the open-source com-
munity (Chaos Mesh, 2021; Netflix, 2012) and the
commercial sector (Amazon Web Services, 2021;
Microsoft, 2023). While these technologies have
advanced CE automation, its full automation has
not yet been achieved due to the complexity of gen-
erative tasks, such as hypothesis formulation and
system reconfiguration. Our work is the first to
fully automate CE using LLMs.
LLMs for software engineering LLMs for cod-
ing have been actively explored from various as-
pects: Pretraining models (Chen et al., 2021; Roz-
ière et al., 2024; Guo et al., 2024), prompt engineer-
ing (Chen et al., 2022; Jiang et al., 2023), and eval-
uation (Austin et al., 2021; Chen et al., 2021). For
more general SE tasks, LLMs that solve issues in
GitHub repositories have also emerged (Yang et al.,
2024b; Cognition Labs, 2024; Xia et al., 2024).
Since CE for software systems are regarded as SE,
our work can be considered a part of this trend.
Unlike existing SE benchmarks, CE requires au-
tonomously defining and achieving its own goals.
Our work demonstrates the potential of LLMs to
tackle such complex SE tasks that are new to them.
LLMs for networking (NW) LLMs for network-
ing have also been explored from various aspects in
recent years: Datasets (Bariah et al., 2023; Karim
et al., 2023), benchmarks (Maatouk et al., 2023;
Miao et al., 2023), fine-tuned models (Bariah et al.,
2023), an agent framework for NW-related tasks
(Huang et al., 2023), and comprehensive evalua-
tion (Ahmed et al., 2024; Piovesan et al., 2024).
These works empirically demonstrate the promise
of applying LLMs to the NW domain. In parallel
with the research side, various NW applications
have also been developed, especially for software
systems. They range from LLM-based IaC code
generation (Firefly, 2022; Özercan, 2023; Pulumi,
10
===== PAGE 11 =====
2023) to diagnostic tools (K8sGPT, 2023; Robusta,
2023) and misconfiguration remediation (Malul
et al., 2024). Despite the advancements of LLMs
in the NW domain, their application to CE remains
unexplored. Our work is the first to demonstrate
the capabilities of LLMs in CE, which involves
complex NW operations.
Concurrent works In parallel with our work,
some other projects have shown promising results
in applying LLMs to CE. From a security perspec-
tive, Bedoya et al. (2024) leverage LLMs to con-
struct attack-defense trees, which assist security
analysts in designing security chaos experiments.
The major differences from ours lie in their use of
LLMs as a supplementary support tool and design-
ing the LLM workflow specialized to the hypoth-
esis phase based on the methodology of security
CE. AIOpsLab (Chen et al., 2025) is an evalua-
tion framework for LLM agents that automates
the operations of cloud (i.e., software) systems. It
includes failure injection as a feature and allows
us to evaluate the capabilities of LLM agents in
CE. The supported failures include both functional
failures, such as system misconfigurations, and
independent symptomatic failures, such as server
downtime and network delays. However, while it
evaluates whether LLM agents can provide appro-
priate cause analyses and solutions for functional
failures, the evaluation for symptomatic failures is
limited to identifying the presence of failure and
pinpointing their locations. On the other hand,
CHAOS EATER focuses on the symptomatic fail-
ures and is capable of performing more detailed
and comprehensive CE by following the systematic
CE cycle. For example, it autonomously makes
a appropriate hypothesis for a given system, de-
signs complex failure scheduling to simulate symp-
tomatic failure scenarios, analyzes system behavior
during symptomatic failure injection, and enables
reconfigurations to address unexpected behavior
due to the failures. While these concurrent works,
including ours, share a common goal, each focuses
on a different aspect of CE.
B Discussion
Broader impacts Numerous systems, including
the increasing number of LLM applications in re-
cent years, are built in the microservice architec-
ture, and their number is expected to continue
to grow in the future. By fully automating CE,
it will be possible for anyone to easily build re-
silient systems. Moreover, it is also expected to
combine CHAOS EATER with other LLM systems
for creating software applications, such as improv-
ing the resiliency of applications created by other
LLM systems through CHAOS EATER. Although
CHAOS EATER is not yet at a practical level, we be-
lieve that CHAOS EATER would be a good starting
point toward such use cases. Even at its current
level, CHAOS EATER can be sufficiently used as
training materials (including both good and bad
practices) for the Chaos Game Day, which is a
training exercise for CE engineers.
Limitations CHAOS EATER currently has the fol-
lowing limitations:
1. Limited deployment environment ;
Although CE should ideally be con-
ducted in actual production environments,
CHAOS EATER is currently only supported
in development environments.
2. Limited to GPT-4o ; CHAOS EATER’s
prompt templates are highly tuned only for
GPT-4o. Therefore, other LLMs can not cur-
rently be used for CHAOS EATER.
3. Limited to K8s manifest reconfiguration;
Software systems consist not only of K8s
manifests but also of other types of code-
bases, such as HTML/CSS/JS and Python.
Although K8s manifest reconfiguration can
handle a majority of system resiliency issues,
reconfiguration of all types of codebases is
necessary to optimally improve system re-
siliency. However, CHAOS EATER currently
supports reconfiguring only K8s manifests.
4. Vulnerability discovery; In the case study,
CHAOS EATER improved systems with rela-
tively simple resiliency issues. However, for
systems that already possess a certain level
of resiliency, CHAOS EATER fails to find new
hidden issues through a CE cycle. Given
that this is a challenging task even for human
engineers, CHAOS EATER is currently con-
sidered to perform at a level comparable to,
or lower than, that of engineers. To find such
issues, it is necessary to conduct multiple CE
cycles over extended operational periods.
Future directions Given the current limitations
above, we share several future directions for
CHAOS EATER and the full automation of system
resiliency improvement:
1. Production deployment and security ; If
CHAOS EATER is deployed in production en-
11
===== PAGE 12 =====
vironments, further research on security will
be necessary. This includes controlling more
carefully the impact range of failures (i.e.,
blast radius), preventing CHAOS EATER from
becoming a proxy for attacking production
services, and proposing emergency response
measures, such as a higher-level monitoring
system that always monitors CHAOS EATER.
2. Support for various LLMs ; As
CHAOS EATER’s prompt templates are
tuned manually, supporting various LLMs
significantly increases their management
costs. To address this, automatic prompt
tuning is considered an effective solution.
Our current prompt templates may be used
as the seed prompts.
3. Fine-tuning LLMs specifically for CE ;
Fine-tuning is necessary to improve the qual-
ity of CE cycles and expand supported LLM
types. CHAOS EATER’s outputs may be used
as the instruction-tuning data.
4. Evaluation frameworks; As there are cur-
rently no datasets and benchmarks for the
systematic CE cycle, we will construct
them to enable more solid validation of
CHAOS EATER. Besides, we plan to propose
new metrics for quantitatively evaluating CE
cycles conducted by CHAOS EATER. This
is not easy because, even in cases where
no improvements are made, CE cycles can
still provide valuable insights. Therefore, the
quality of CE cycles should not be judged
solely based on whether improvements were
made; metrics that consider its philosophical
aspects are also necessary.
5. Toward larger and more complex systems;
We need to incorporate the recent advances
in the combination of LLMs and graphs to
extract necessary sub-graphs from large sys-
tem graphs. This sub-graph extraction is im-
portant to organize the agent’s inputs in each
phase.
6. Full automation of long-term multiple CE
cycles; By using the CHAOS EATER’s out-
put as input for the next CE cycle, we can
automate multiple CE cycles even with the
current CHAOS EATER. However, we addi-
tionally need to develop techniques to man-
age the long-term history of completed CE
cycles and continuous learning (if LLMs are
fine-tuned).
C Evaluation Details
C.1 Parameters of LLM agents
The parameters of LLM agents are as follows: the
temperature of LLMs to 0 with a random seed of
42; the maximum number of proposed steady states
is set to 2; and the maximum number of iterations
for both the verification improvement loops is set
to 3. All other parameters of LLMs are set to their
default values.
C.2 Quantitative Evaluation
Tokens and API costs We first count the input
and output tokens using the tokenizer of GPT-4o
(o200k_base). We then calculate the monetary
costs based on the official OpenAI API pricing
table in September 2024: $2.50 per 1 million input
tokens and $10.00 per 1 million output tokens.
Running time We measure the running time us-
ing the time module in Python. We implement
each phase as a separate Python class and measure
the running time as the duration from the start to
the termination of each class call. The specifica-
tions of the device used for the evaluation are as
follows: AMD Epyc Milian x 2 (CPU) and MEM-
DR432LC-ER32 DDR4-3200 x 32 (Memory).
C.3 Qualitative Evaluation
Evaluation scale Table 2 shows the evaluation
scale. The criteria are designed so that a score of 3
or above is considered a positive rating. For each
phase, a score of 3 corresponds to meeting the min-
imum required criteria, while scores of 4 and above
are incrementally awarded for additional elements,
such as contributions to the next CE cycle, quality
or efficiency. On the other hand, scores of 1 or 2
correspond to operations that are either meaning-
less or that lead to undesirable modifications to the
system. To determine these concrete criteria, we
referred to the essential elements of CE mentioned
in (Basiri et al., 2016).
Evaluators We employ two human engineers
and three state-of-the-art LLMs. The human en-
gineers are recruited from external IT companies
across different countries. The LLM evaluators in-
clude gpt-4o-2024-0908-06 (GPT-4o), claude-3-5-
sonnet-20240620 (Claude Sonnet 3.5), and gemini-
1.5-pro (Gemini 1.5 pro). Following (Gu et al.,
2025), the temperature is set to 0 for all LLMs
to improve the consistency and reproducibility of
12
===== PAGE 13 =====
Table 2: Evaluation scale for each phase. The criteria are designed so that a score of 3 or higher is positive.
Phase Score Criteria
Overall
5 The cycle fixes critical issues in the system and offers meaningful insights for the next
cycle according to the experiments conducted.
4 The cycle fixes critical issues in the system.
3 The cycle fixes minor issues in the system or offers meaningful insights for the next
cycle according to the experiments conducted.
2 The cycle neither changes the system nor offers meaningful insights for the next cycle
according to the experiments conducted.
1 The cycle worsens the system’s resiliency or adds meaningless resiliency.
Hypothesis
5 The hypothesis is relevant to the system and meaningful. Additioanlly, the hypothesis
leads to system improvement and offers meaningful insights for the next cycle.
4 The hypothesis is relevant to the system and meaningful. Additionally, the hypothesis
leads to system improvement or offers meaningful insights for the next cycle.
3 The hypothesis is relevant to the system and meaningful. However, the hypothesis neither
leads to system improvement nor offers meaningful insights for the next cycle.
2 The hypothesis is relevant to the system, but is trivial and meaningless (e.g., hypothesis
that is to be obviously satisfied).
1 The hypothesis is irrelevant to the system.
Experiment
5 The experiment plan correctly serves to validate the hypothesis. Additionally, it is set up
considering an complex, actual failure scenario.
4 The experiment plan correctly serves to validate the hypothesis. Additionally, it is set up
considering an actual failure scenario.
3 The experiment plan correctly serves to validate the hypothesis.
2 The experiment plan mostly serves to validate the hypothesis. However, there are some
missed components.
1 The experiment plan does serve to validate the hypothesis at all.
Analysis
5 The analysis reports correct and meaningful information. Additioanlly, it provides some
meaningful insights for the improvement.
4 The analysis reports correct and meaningful information. Additioanlly, it provides some
insights for the improvement.
3 The analysis reports correct and meaningful information.
2 The analysis reports meaningless information.
1 The analysis reports information that is not factual.
Improvement
5 The improvement succesully changes the system to satisfy the hypothesis in the first
attempt.
4 The improvement succesully changes the system to satisfy the hypothesis over two or
more iterations.
3 The improvement does not change the system.
2 The improvement exceeded the number of attempts and stopped midway.
1 The improvement worsens the system’s resiliency or adds meaningless resiliency.
the evaluations. As mentioned earlier, all other
parameters remain at their default values.
Evaluation instruction We give a system prompt
for this qualitative evaluation to LLMs, where they
are instructed to output the score and its corre-
sponding reason for each phase in JSON format.
In this format, the reason comes before the score.
Prompt 1 and Example 1 show the system prompt
and an example of text embedded in the place-
holder {ce_cycle_overview}, respectively.
This embedded overview is generated by embed-
ding the outputs of CHAOS EATER into a static tem-
13
===== PAGE 14 =====
plate. We give almost the same instruction to the
human engineers. Additionally, before the evalua-
tion, we obtained their consent to use the evaluation
results for the purpose of evaluatingCHAOS EATER
and for inclusion in this paper. They were also
cautioned to avoid any evaluation bias that might
arise from disclosing the purpose in advance.
Prompt 1: System prompt for reviewing
each phase of completed CE cycles
System:
You are a professional reviewer for Chaos
Engineering.
Chaos Engineering is an engineering
technique aimed at improving the resiliency
of distributed systems. It involves
artificially injecting specific failures
into a distributed system and observing its
behavior in response. Based on the
observation, the system can be proactively
improved to handle those failures.
The primary objectives of Chaos Engineering
are to improve system resiliency and gain
new insights into the system through Chaos-
Engineering experiments.
Systematically, Chaos Engineering cycles
through four phases: hypothesis, experiment,
analysis, and improvement phases.
1) Hypothesis: Define steady states (i.e.,
normal behavior) of the system and
injected failures (i.e., faults). Then,
make a hypothesis that "the steady states
are maintained in the system even when the
failures are injected".
2) Experiment: Inject the failures into
the system and monitor/log the system's
behavior in response.
3) Analysis: Analyze the logged data and
check if the hypothesis is satisfied. If
so, one CE cycle is finished here. If not,
move to (4)
4) Improvement: Reconfigure the system to
satisfy the hypothesis. The reconfigured
system is tested again in (2) and (3), i.e
., repeat (2) to (4) until the hypothesis
is satisfied.
Given a Chaos Engineering cycle, you will
carefully review it according to the
following rules:
- The review must be specific, constructive,
and insightful.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {"properties":
{"foo": {"title": "Foo", "description": "a
list of strings", "type": "array", "items":
{"type": "string"}}}, "required": ["foo"]}
the object {"foo": ["bar", "baz"]} is a well
-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {"properties": {"foo": ["bar", "baz
"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"hypothesis": {
"title": "Hypothesis",
"description": "The review of the
hypothesis phase.",
"allOf": [{"$ref": "#/definitions/
HypothesisReview"}]
},
"experiment": {
"title": "Experiment",
"description": "The review of the
experiment (planning) phase.",
"allOf": [{"$ref": "#/definitions/
ExperimentReview"}]
},
"analysis": {
"title": "Analysis",
"description": "The review of the
analysis phase.",
"allOf": [{"$ref": "#/definitions/
AnalysisReview"}]
},
"improvement": {
"title": "Improvement",
"description": "The review of the
improvement phase.",
"allOf": [{"$ref": "#/definitions/
ImprovementReview"}]
},
"overall": {
"title": "Overall",
"description": "The review of the
entire Chaos Engineering cycle.",
"allOf": [{"$ref": "#/definitions/
OverallReview"}]
}
},
"required": ["hypothesis", "experiment", "
analysis", "improvement", "overall"],
"definitions": {
"HypothesisReview": {
"title": "HypothesisReview",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"summary": {
"title": "Summary",
"description": "Summarize the
overall of the hypothesis.",
"type": "string"
},
"strengths": {
"title": "Strengths",
"description": "List the strengths
of the hypothesis. Write them in
bullet points (3 - 5 items).",
"type": "string"
},
"weaknesses": {
"title": "Weaknesses",
"description": "List the
weaknesses of the hypothesis.
Write them in bullet points (3 - 5
items).",
"type": "string"
},
"score_reason": {
"title": "Score Reason",
"description": "Before write the
score, please describe why you
choose the score according to the
rating scale table.",
"type": "string"
},
"score": {
"title": "Score",
"description": "Here is the rating
scale (descending order). You
must choose the score from [1,
5].\nThe higher the score, the
better the hypothesis. The scores
1, 2 are negative, The score 3 is
accetable, the score 4 is positive
, the score 5 is very positive.\
nScore: criteria\n5: The
hypothesis is relevant to the
system and meaningful.
Additioanlly, the hypothesis leads
to system improvement and offers
meaningful insights for the next
cycle. \n4: The hypothesis is
relevant to the system and
meaningful. Additionally, the
hypothesis leads to system
improvement or offers meaningful
insights for the next cycle.\n3:
14
===== PAGE 15 =====
The hypothesis is relevant to the
system and meaningful. However,
the hypothesis neither leads to
system improvement nor offers
meaningful insights for the next
cycle.\n2: The hypothesis is
relevant to the system, but is
trivial and meaningless (e.g.,
hypothesis that is to be obviously
satisfied).\n1: The hypothesis is
irrelevant to the system.\n",
"enum": [1, 2, 3, 4, 5],
"type": "integer"
}
},
"required": ["summary", "strengths", "
weaknesses", "score_reason", "score"]
},
"ExperimentReview": {
"title": "ExperimentReview",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"summary": {
"title": "Summary",
"description": "Summarize the
overall of the experiment plan.",
"type": "string"
},
"strengths": {
"title": "Strengths",
"description": "List the strengths
of the experiment plan. Write
them in bullet points (3 - 5 items
).",
"type": "string"
},
"weaknesses": {
"title": "Weaknesses",
"description": "List the
weaknesses of the experiment plan.
Write them in bullet points (3 -
5 items).",
"type": "string"
},
"score_reason": {
"title": "Score Reason",
"description": "Before write the
score, please describe why you
choose the score according to the
rating scale table.",
"type": "string"
},
"score": {
"title": "Score",
"description": "Here is the rating
scale (descending order). You
must choose the score from [1,
5].\nThe higher the score, the
better the experiment plan.\n5:
The experiment plan correctly
serves to validate the hypothesis.
Additionally, it is set up
considering an complex, actual
failure scenario.\n4: The
experiment plan correctly serves
to validate the hypothesis.
Additionally, it is set up
considering an actual failure
scenario.\n3: The experiment plan
correctly serves to validate the
hypothesis.\n2: The experiment
plan mostly serves to validate the
hypothesis. However, there are
some missed components.\n1: The
experiment plan does serve to
validate the hypothesis at all.\n
",
"enum": [1, 2, 3, 4, 5],
"type": "integer"
}
},
"required": ["summary", "strengths", "
weaknesses", "score_reason", "score"]
},
"AnalysisReview": {
"title": "AnalysisReview",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"summary": {
"title": "Summary",
"description": "Summarize the
overall of the analysis.",
"type": "string"
},
"strengths": {
"title": "Strengths",
"description": "List the strengths
of the analysis. Write them in
bullet points (3 - 5 items).",
"type": "string"
},
"weaknesses": {
"title": "Weaknesses",
"description": "List the
weaknesses of the analysis. Write
them in bullet points (3 - 5 items
).",
"type": "string"
},
"score_reason": {
"title": "Score Reason",
"description": "Before write the
score, please describe why you
choose the score according to the
rating scale table.",
"type": "string"
},
"score": {
"title": "Score",
"description": "Here is the rating
scale (descending order). You
must choose the score from [1,
5].\nThe higher the score, the
better the analysis.\n5: The
analysis reports correct and
meaningful information.
Additioanlly, it provides some
meaningful insights for the
improvement.\n4: The analysis
reports correct and meaningful
information. Additioanlly, it
provides some insights for the
improvement.\n3: The analysis
reports correct and meaningful
information.\n2: The analysis
reports meaningless information.\
n1: The analysis reports
information that is not factual.\n
",
"enum": [1, 2, 3, 4, 5],
"type": "integer"
}
},
"required": ["summary", "strengths", "
weaknesses", "score_reason", "score"]
},
"ImprovementReview": {
"title": "ImprovementReview",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"summary": {
"title": "Summary",
"description": "Summarize the
overall of the improvement.",
"type": "string"
},
"strengths": {
"title": "Strengths",
"description": "List the strengths
of the improvement. Write them in
bullet points (3 - 5 items).",
"type": "string"
},
"weaknesses": {
"title": "Weaknesses",
"description": "List the
weaknesses of the improvement.
Write them in bullet points (3 - 5
items).",
"type": "string"
15
===== PAGE 16 =====
},
"score_reason": {
"title": "Score Reason",
"description": "Before write the
score, please describe why you
choose the score according to the
rating scale table.",
"type": "string"
},
"score": {
"title": "Score",
"description": "Here is the rating
scale (descending order). You
must choose the score from [1,
5].\nThe higher the score, the
better the improvement. \n5: The
improvement succesully changes the
system to satisfy the hypothesis
in the first attempt.\n4: The
improvement succesully changes the
system to satisfy the hypothesis
over two or more iterations.\n3:
The improvement does not change
the system.\n2: The improvement
exceeded the number of attempts
and stopped midway.\n1: The
improvement worsens the system's
resiliency or adds meaningless
resiliency.\n",
"enum": [1, 2, 3, 4, 5],
"type": "integer"
}
},
"required": ["summary", "strengths", "
weaknesses", "score_reason", "score"]
},
"OverallReview": {
"title": "OverallReview",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"summary": {
"title": "Summary",
"description": "Summarize the
overall of the Chaos Engineering
cycle.",
"type": "string"
},
"strengths": {
"title": "Strengths",
"description": "List the strengths
of the Chaos Engineering cycle.
Write them in bullet points (3 - 5
items).",
"type": "string"
},
"weaknesses": {
"title": "Weaknesses",
"description": "List the
weaknesses of the Chaos
Engineering cycle. Write them in
bullet points (3 - 5 items).",
"type": "string"
},
"score_reason": {
"title": "Score Reason",
"description": "Before write the
score, please describe why you
choose the score according to the
rating scale table.",
"type": "string"
},
"score": {
"title": "Score",
"description": "Here is the rating
scale (descending order). You
must choose the score from [1, 5].
\nThe higher the score, the
better the CE cycle. The scores 1,
2 are negative, The score 3 is
accetable, the score 4 is positive
, the score 5 is very positive.\
nScore: criteria\n5: The cycle
fixes critical issues in the
system and offers meaningful
insights for the next cycle
according to the experiments
conducted\n4: The cycle fixes
critical issues in the system\n3:
The cycle fixes minor issues in
the system or offers meaningful
insights for the next cycle
according to the experiments
conducted\n2: The cycle neither
changes the system nor offers
meaningful insights for the next
cycle according to the experiments
conducted\n1: The cycle worsens
the system's resiliency or adds
meaningless resiliency.\n",
"enum": [1, 2, 3, 4, 5],
"type": "integer"
}
},
"required": ["summary", "strengths", "
weaknesses", "score_reason", "score"]
}
}
}
```
User:
Here is the overview of a Chaos Engineering
cycle to be reviewed:
{ce_cycle_overview}
Please review the above Chaos Engineering
cycle.
Example 1:ce_cycle_overview
# Here is a Chaos Engineering cycle
## Step 0. User-input understanding
### Here is the overview of user inputs:
The system consists of the following K8s
manifest(s):K8s manifest: nginx/pod.yaml
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
name: example-pod
labels:
app: example
spec:
restartPolicy: Never
containers:
- name: example-container
image: nginx:1.17.1
ports:
- containerPort: 80
```
Summary of nginx/pod.yaml:
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes Pod.
- The Pod is named 'example-pod'.
- It includes metadata with a label 'app:
example'.
- The Pod's restart policy is set to 'Never
', meaning it won't restart automatically if
it fails.
- The Pod contains one container named '
example-container'.
- The container uses the 'nginx:1.17.1'
image, which is a specific version of the
Nginx web server.
- The container exposes port 80, which is
commonly used for HTTP traffic.
K8s manifest: nginx/service.yaml
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: example-service
spec:
selector:
app: example
ports:
- protocol: TCP
16
===== PAGE 17 =====
port: 80
targetPort: 80
```
Summary of nginx/service.yaml:
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes Service
.
- The Service is named 'example-service'.
- It uses the 'v1' API version.
- The Service selects pods with the label '
app: example'.
- It exposes the Service on port 80 using
the TCP protocol.
- The Service forwards traffic to the target
port 80 on the selected pods.
The resiliency issues/weaknesses in the
system are as follows:
Issue #0: Pod Restart Policy
- details: The Pod will not restart
automatically if it fails, which can lead
to downtime.
- manifests having the issues: ['nginx/pod
.yaml']
- problematic config: restartPolicy: Never
Issue #1: Single Pod Deployment
- details: Having a single Pod means there
is no redundancy. If the Pod fails, the
service will be unavailable.
- manifests having the issues: ['nginx/pod
.yaml']
- problematic config: Only one Pod is
defined without a Deployment or ReplicaSet
.
The expected type of application on the
system (i.e., K8s manfests):
A simple web server application using Nginx
to serve HTTP content.; The manifests
provided define a Kubernetes Pod and a
Service. The Pod runs an Nginx container,
which is a popular web server used to serve
static content, reverse proxy, or load
balance HTTP traffic. The Service is
configured to expose this Pod on port 80,
which is the default port for HTTP traffic.
Given the use of Nginx and the configuration
of the Service, it is logical to assume
that these manifests are intended to deploy
a simple web server application. The file
names and the use of Nginx further support
this assumption.
Chaos-Engineering instructions for the
system are as follows: - The Chaos-
Engineering experiment must be completed
within 1 minute.
## Step 1. Hypothesis definition
### Here is the overview of the hypothesis
for the system:
The hypothesis is "The steady states of the
sytem are maintained even when the fault
scenario occurs (i.e., when the faults are
injected)".
The steady states here are as follows:
2 steady states are defined.
1st steady state:
- Name: example-pod-running
- Description: The first issue to address is
the Pod's restart policy set to 'Never'.
This is a critical issue because if the Pod
fails, it will not restart, leading to
potential downtime. Therefore, the steady
state should ensure that the Pod is running
and available. A measurable output for this
steady state is the number of running Pods,
which should be 1, as there is only one Pod
defined in the manifest. This steady state
will help verify that the Pod is up and
running, which is crucial given the restart
policy configuration.
- Threshold for the steady state: The pod
should be running at least 90% of the time
during the check period.; The steady state
we are considering is whether the 'example-
pod' is running. The current state shows
that the pod was checked 5 times over a
duration of 5 seconds, and it was running
each time, resulting in a running count of
5. This indicates that the pod is
consistently running during the check period
. Given the constraints of the chaos
engineering experiment, which must be
completed within 1 minute, we can set a
threshold that allows for some tolerance in
case of brief fluctuations. A reasonable
threshold would be that the pod should be
running at least 90% of the time during the
check period. This allows for a small margin
of error while still ensuring that the pod
is generally available and running.
- Whether the steady state meets the
threshold is determined by the following
Python script with K8s API:
```
import os
import time
import argparse
from kubernetes import client, config
from unittest_base import K8sAPIBase
class TestPodRunningState(K8sAPIBase):
def __init__(self):
super().__init__()
def check_pod_status(self, namespace,
pod_name):
try:
pod = self.v1.
read_namespaced_pod(name=
pod_name, namespace=namespace)
return pod.status.phase == '
Running'
except client.exceptions.
ApiException as e:
print(f"Exception when calling
CoreV1Api->read_namespaced_pod:
{e}")
return False
def test_pod_running_state(self,
duration):
namespace = 'default'
pod_name = 'example-pod'
running_count = 0
# Check the pod status every second
for the specified duration
for _ in range(duration):
if self.check_pod_status(
namespace, pod_name):
running_count += 1
time.sleep(1)
# Calculate the running percentage
running_percentage = (running_count
/ duration) * 100
# Assert that the running percentage
is at least 90%
assert running_percentage >= 90, f"
Pod '{pod_name}' running percentage
is below threshold: {
running_percentage}%"
print(f"Pod '{pod_name}' running
status checked {duration} times.
Running percentage: {
running_percentage}%.")
def main():
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(
description='Test if a pod is running at
least 90% of the time.')
parser.add_argument('--duration', type=
int, default=5, help='Duration to check
the pod status in seconds.')
args = parser.parse_args()
17
===== PAGE 18 =====
test = TestPodRunningState()
test.test_pod_running_state(args.
duration)
if __name__ == '__main__':
main()
```
2nd steady state:
- Name: example-service-availability
- Description: The next issue to address is
the 'Single Pod Deployment', which is
related to the lack of redundancy. This is a
significant issue because if the single Pod
fails, the service will be unavailable. To
verify this, we can define a steady state
that checks the availability of the service
itself. A measurable output for this steady
state is the service's response time or
availability. Since the service is exposed
on port 80, we can check if the service is
responding to HTTP requests. This steady
state will help verify that the service is
available and responsive, which is crucial
given the single Pod deployment
configuration.
- Threshold for the steady state: Service
availability should be at least 99.9% with a
response status of 200.; The steady state
we are considering is the availability of
the 'example-service'. The k6 test results
show that the service is currently
responding with a 200 status code for all
requests, indicating 100% availability.
Given that the system consists of a single
Pod, any failure in the Pod would result in
the service being unavailable. Therefore,
the threshold should ensure that the service
remains available and responsive. To
account for minor fluctuations and network
latency, a reasonable threshold would be to
maintain a high availability percentage,
slightly below 100% to allow for brief, non-
critical failures. A threshold of 99.9%
availability is a common standard for web
services, allowing for some tolerance while
still ensuring high reliability.
- Whether the steady state meets the
threshold is determined by the following K6
Javascript:
```
import http from 'k6/http';
import { check } from 'k6';
export const options = {
vus: 1,
duration: '5s',
thresholds: {
// Ensure that the service availability
is at least 99.9%
'http_req_failed': ['rate<=0.001'], //
0.1% failure rate corresponds to 99.9%
availability
},
};
export default function () {
const res = http.get('http://example-
service.default.svc.cluster.local:80');
check(res, {
'status is 200': (r) => r.status ===
200,
});
}
```
The fault scenario here is as follows:
An assumed fault scenario is as follows:
- Event: Cyber Attack
- Used Chaos Engineering tool: Chaos Mesh
- Faults to simulate the event: [[Fault(name
='PodChaos', name_id=0, params={'action': '
pod-kill', 'mode': 'one', 'selector': {'
namespaces': ['default'], 'labelSelectors':
{'app': 'example'}}})], [Fault(name='
NetworkChaos', name_id=1, params={'action':
'delay', 'direction': 'to', 'target': {'mode
': 'all', 'selector': {'namespaces': ['
default'], 'labelSelectors': {'app': '
example'}}}, 'mode': 'all', 'selector': {'
namespaces': ['default'], 'labelSelectors':
{'app': 'example'}}, 'device': 'eth0', '
delay': {'latency': '100ms', 'jitter': '10ms
', 'correlation': '50'}})]]
- Description: Given the system's weaknesses
, a cyber attack targeting the single Pod
and its network could be highly impactful.
The Pod's restart policy set to 'Never'
means that if the Pod fails, it will not
restart, leading to downtime. Additionally,
the single Pod deployment means there is no
redundancy, so any failure will make the
service unavailable. To simulate a cyber
attack, we can start by injecting a PodChaos
fault to kill the Pod, testing the system's
ability to handle Pod failures. This will
directly exploit the lack of redundancy and
the restart policy issue. Next, we can
simulate a network attack using NetworkChaos
to introduce network latency, testing the
service's ability to maintain availability
under network stress. This sequence
simulates a cyber attack by first taking
down the Pod and then stressing the network,
revealing the system's vulnerabilities in
handling such scenarios.
## Step 2.1. Chaos-Engineering experiment
### Here is the overview of my Chaos-
Engineering experiment to verify the
hypothesis:
The entire time schedule of the Chaos-
Engineering experiment is as follows (The
experiment is divided into three phases: pre
-validation, fault-injection, and post-
validation phases):
Given the constraints of the chaos
engineering experiment, which must be
completed within 1 minute, we need to
allocate time efficiently across the three
phases: pre-validation, fault-injection, and
post-validation. The pre-validation phase
is crucial to ensure that the system is in a
steady state before we introduce any faults
. Since we have two steady states to
validate, we should allocate a reasonable
amount of time to check both the pod's
running status and the service's
availability. A duration of 15 seconds
should be sufficient for pre-validation,
allowing us to run the necessary checks
multiple times. The fault-injection phase is
where we introduce the chaos to observe the
system's behavior under stress. Given the
complexity of the faults (PodChaos and
NetworkChaos), we should allocate the
majority of the time to this phase to ensure
that the faults have enough time to
manifest and impact the system. A duration
of 30 seconds is appropriate for fault
injection, allowing us to observe the system
's response to both pod failure and network
latency. Finally, the post-validation phase
is essential to verify that the system
returns to its steady states after the
faults are removed. We should allocate 15
seconds for post-validation, similar to the
pre-validation phase, to ensure that the
system stabilizes and meets the defined
thresholds for steady states. This
allocation results in a total experiment
time of 60 seconds, which fits within the 1-
minute constraint.
- Total experiment phase: 60s
- Pre-validation phase: 15s
- Fault-injection phase: 30s
- Post-validation phase: 15s
18
===== PAGE 19 =====
The details of the three phases are as
follows:
Pre-validation Phase (15s):
In the pre-validation phase, we need to
ensure that the system is in its expected
steady state before we proceed with fault
injection. Given the constraints of a 15-
second total time for this phase, we will
conduct two unit tests to verify the steady
states: one for the pod's running status and
another for the service's availability.
These tests will be executed sequentially
due to the short duration available,
ensuring that each steady state is verified
independently and thoroughly. The first test
will check if the 'example-pod' is running
at least 90% of the time over a 5-second
period. This is crucial because the pod's
restart policy is set to 'Never', and we
need to confirm its availability before
introducing any faults. The second test will
verify the 'example-service' availability,
ensuring it responds with a 200 status code
at least 99.9% of the time over another 5-
second period. This test is essential to
confirm that the service is operational and
responsive, given the single pod deployment.
By staggering these tests, we can focus on
each steady state individually, allowing us
to identify any issues before proceeding to
the fault injection phase.
Fault-injection Phase (30s):
In this fault-injection phase, we aim to
simulate a cyber attack by injecting two
types of faults: PodChaos and NetworkChaos.
The total duration for this phase is 30
seconds, so we need to carefully schedule
the faults and unit tests to fit within this
timeframe.
First, we will inject the PodChaos fault to
simulate a pod failure. This fault will be
injected at the start of the phase (grace
period of 0s) and will last for 10 seconds.
This duration is chosen to allow enough time
for the system to experience the impact of
the pod being killed, given the pod's
restart policy is set to 'Never'.
Simultaneously, we will run the unit test
for the 'example-pod-running' steady state
to verify if the pod is running at least 90%
of the time during the fault injection.
This test will also start at 0s and run for
10 seconds, aligning with the PodChaos
duration.
Next, we will inject the NetworkChaos fault
to simulate network latency. This fault will
start at 10 seconds (after the PodChaos
fault ends) and will last for 20 seconds.
This staggered approach allows us to observe
the system's behavior under network stress
after the pod failure has been simulated.
During the NetworkChaos fault, we will run
the unit test for the 'example-service-
availability' steady state. This test will
start at 10 seconds and run for 20 seconds,
matching the NetworkChaos duration. This
ensures we are checking the service's
availability and response time while the
network is under stress.
By staggering the faults and aligning the
unit tests with the fault durations, we can
effectively observe the system's behavior
under each fault condition and verify if the
steady states are maintained.
Post-validation Phase (15s):
In the post-validation phase, we need to
ensure that the system has returned to its
steady states after the fault injection.
Given the 15-second time constraint, we will
perform quick checks to verify the steady
states. The two steady states to verify are:
1) the 'example-pod' is running, and 2) the
'example-service' is available. We will
execute these checks sequentially due to the
short duration, ensuring each test has
enough time to gather meaningful data. The
first test will check the pod's running
status, followed by the service availability
test. This order is logical because the pod
must be running for the service to be
available. Each test will have a brief grace
period to allow the system to stabilize
after the fault injection, followed by a
short duration to perform the checks.
The summary of the above experiment plan:
The chaos engineering experiment is
structured into three phases: pre-validation
, fault-injection, and post-validation, all
to be completed within a total of 60 seconds
.
In the pre-validation phase, which lasts for
15 seconds, two unit tests are conducted
sequentially to ensure the system is in a
steady state before fault injection. The
first test, named 'pre-unittest-example-pod-
running', checks the 'example-pod' running
status. It starts immediately at the
beginning of the phase and runs for 5
seconds. Following this, the second test, '
pre-unittest-example-service-availability',
begins at the 5-second mark and also runs
for 5 seconds, verifying the service's
availability.
The fault-injection phase spans 30 seconds
and involves two types of faults: PodChaos
and NetworkChaos. Initially, the PodChaos
fault, named 'fault-podchaos', is injected
at the start of the phase and lasts for 10
seconds. Concurrently, the 'fault-unittest-
example-pod-running' unit test runs for the
same duration to verify the pod's status
during the fault. After the PodChaos fault
concludes, the NetworkChaos fault, named '
fault-networkchaos', begins at the 10-second
mark and continues for 20 seconds.
Simultaneously, the 'fault-unittest-example-
service-availability' test runs for 20
seconds, starting at the same time as the
NetworkChaos fault, to check the service's
availability under network stress.
Finally, the post-validation phase, also 15
seconds long, ensures the system returns to
its steady states. The 'post-unittest-
example-pod-running' test starts after a 2-
second grace period and runs for 6 seconds
to verify the pod's status. Subsequently,
the 'post-unittest-example-service-
availability' test begins at the 8-second
mark and runs for 5 seconds, checking the
service's availability. This sequential
execution allows for a brief stabilization
period before each test.
To automatically conduct the above
experiment plan with Chaos Mesh, the
following Chaos-Mesh-Worfklow file was
created (by applying it to the cluster, the
experiment plan will be automatically
executed according to the Chaos-Mesh-
Worfklow file):
```yaml
apiVersion: chaos-mesh.org/v1alpha1
kind: Workflow
metadata:
name: chaos-experiment
spec:
entry: the-entry
templates:
19
===== PAGE 20 =====
#-------------------------------
# entry point of whole workflow
#-------------------------------
- name: the-entry
templateType: Serial
deadline: 30m51s
children:
- pre-validation-phase
- fault-injection-phase
- post-validation-phase
#-------------------------------------
# Entry point of pre-validation-phase
#-------------------------------------
- name: pre-validation-phase
templateType: Serial
deadline: 10m10s
children:
- pre-validation-overlapped-workflows
- name: pre-validation-suspend-workflow
templateType: Serial
deadline: 5m10s
children:
- pre-validation-suspend
- pre-unittest-example-service-
availability
- name: pre-validation-suspend
templateType: Suspend
deadline: 5s
- name: pre-validation-overlapped-workflows
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m10s
children:
- pre-unittest-example-pod-running
- pre-validation-suspend-workflow
# Definitions of children of
# pre-validation-phase
- name: pre-unittest-example-pod-running
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m5s
task:
container:
name: pre-unittest-example-pod-
running-container
image: chaos-eater/k8sapi:1.0
imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
command: ["/bin/bash", "-c"]
args: ["python
unittest_example-pod-running.py
--duration 5"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
- name: pre-unittest-example-service-
availability
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m5s
task:
container:
name: pre-unittest-example-service-
availability-container
image: grafana/k6:latest
command: [
"k6", "run", "--duration",
"5s", "--quiet",
"unittest_service-availability.js"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
#--------------------------------------
# Entry point of fault-injection-phase
#--------------------------------------
- name: fault-injection-phase
templateType: Serial
deadline: 10m30s
children:
- fault-injection-overlapped-workflows
- name: fault-injection-parallel-workflow
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m10s
children:
- fault-unittest-example-pod-running
- fault-podchaos
- name: fault-injection-suspend-workflow
templateType: Serial
deadline: 5m30s
children:
- fault-injection-suspend
- fault-injection-parallel-workflows
- name: fault-injection-suspend
templateType: Suspend
deadline: 10s
- name: fault-injection-parallel-workflows
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m20s
children:
- fault-unittest-service-availability
- fault-networkchaos
- name: fault-injection-overlapped-workflows
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m30s
children:
- fault-injection-parallel-workflow
- fault-injection-suspend-workflow
# Definitions of children of
# pre-validation-phase
# unit tests
- name: fault-unittest-example-pod-running
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m10s
task:
container:
name: fault-unittest-example-pod-
running-container
image: chaos-eater/k8sapi:1.0
imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
command: ["/bin/bash", "-c"]
args: ["python
unittest_example-pod-running_mod0.py
--duration 10"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
- name: fault-unittest-service-availability
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m20s
task:
container:
name: fault-unittest-example-service-
availability-container
image: grafana/k6:latest
command: ["k6", "run", "--duration",
"20s", "--quiet",
"unittest_service-availability.js"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
# fault_injections
- name: fault-podchaos
templateType: PodChaos
deadline: 10s
podChaos:
20
===== PAGE 21 =====
action: pod-kill
mode: one
selector:
labelSelectors:
app: example
namespaces:
- default
- name: fault-networkchaos
templateType: NetworkChaos
deadline: 20s
networkChaos:
action: delay
delay:
correlation: '50'
jitter: 10ms
latency: 100ms
device: eth0
direction: to
mode: all
selector:
labelSelectors:
app: example
namespaces:
- default
target:
mode: all
selector:
labelSelectors:
app: example
namespaces:
- default
#--------------------------------------
# Entry point of post-validation phase
#--------------------------------------
- name: post-validation-phase
templateType: Serial
deadline: 10m11s
children:
- post-validation-overlapped-workflows
- name: post-validation-suspend-workflow
templateType: Serial
deadline: 5m8s
children:
- post-validation-suspend
- post-unittest-example-pod-running
- name: post-validation-suspend
templateType: Suspend
deadline: 2s
- name: post-validation-suspend-workflow2
templateType: Serial
deadline: 5m11s
children:
- post-validation-suspend2
- post-unittest-service-availability
- name: post-validation-suspend2
templateType: Suspend
deadline: 6s
- name: post-validation-overlapped-workflows
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m11s
children:
- post-validation-suspend-workflow
- post-validation-suspend-workflow2
# Definitions of children of
# pre-validation-phase
- name: post-unittest-example-pod-running
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m6s
task:
container:
name: post-unittest-example-pod-
running-container
image: chaos-eater/k8sapi:1.0
imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
command: ["/bin/bash", "-c"]
args: ["python
unittest_example-pod-running.py
--duration 6"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
- name: post-unittest-service-availability
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m5s
task:
container:
name: post-unittest-service-
availability-container
image: grafana/k6:latest
command: ["k6", "run", "--duration",
"5s", "--quiet",
"unittest_service-availability.js"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
```
## Step 2.2, 3, 4. Experiment execution,
analysis and improvement (reconfiguring the
system to satisfy the hypothesis)
### Here is the improvement history:
### Experiment result (1st try)
Passed unittests:
- pre-unittest-example-pod-running
- pre-unittest-example-service-availability
Failed unittests:
- fault-unittest-example-pod-running
```log
Exception when calling CoreV1Api->
read_namespaced_pod: (404)
Reason: Not Found
HTTP response headers: HTTPHeaderDict({'
Audit-Id': '71a5fb6f-8e8c-4e31-9bc2-
db80df08c498', 'Cache-Control': 'no-cache,
private', 'Content-Type': 'application/json
', 'X-Kubernetes-Pf-Flowschema-Uid': '
c4624bd9-7fc7-42c6-bcb8-4235110a860d', ... '
Content-Length': '190'})
HTTP response body: {"kind":"Status"...-
Control': 'no-cache, private', 'Content-Type
': 'application/json', 'X-Kubernetes-Pf-
Flowschema-Uid': 'c4624bd9-7fc7-42c6-bcb8
-4235110a860d', 'X-Kubernetes-Pf-
Prioritylevel-Uid': '4706085f-6263-43ae-93f5
-b4a61de8b6be', 'Date': 'Sun, 24 Nov 2024
13:25:27 GMT', 'Content-Length': '190'})
HTTP response body: {"kind":"Status","
apiVersion":"v1","metadata":{},"status":"
Failure","message":"pods \"example-pod\" not
found","reason":"NotFound","details":{"name
":"example-pod","kind":"pods"},"code":404}
```
- fault-unittest-example-service-
availability
```log
time="2024-11-24T13:25:29Z" level=warning
msg="Request Failed" error="Get \"http://
example-service.default.svc.cluster.local...
http_reqs............: 26 1.269887/s
iteration_duration...: avg=787.43ms min
=287.51µs med=1.02s max=1.02s p(90)=1.02s
p(95)=1.02s
iterations...........: 26 1.269887/s
vus..................: 1 min=1 max=1
vus_max..............: 1 min=1 max=1
time="2024-11-24T13:25:49Z" level=error msg
="thresholds on metrics 'http_req_failed'
have been crossed"
```
- post-unittest-example-pod-running
21
===== PAGE 22 =====
```log
Traceback (most recent call last):
File "/chaos-eater/sandbox/
cycle_20241124_132128/hypothesis/
unittest_example-pod-running_mod0.py",
line 49, in <module>
Exception when calling CoreV1Api->
read_namespaced_pod: (404)
Reason: Not Found
HTTP response headers: HTTPHeaderDict({'
Audit-Id': '8a587dad-5e7d-44d6-b9a5-
dd6a14dc6125', 'Cache-Control': 'no-cache,
private', 'Content-Type': 'application/json
', 'X-Kubernetes-Pf-Flowschema-Uid': '
c4624bd9-7fc7-42c6-bcb8-4235110a860d', 'X-
Kubernetes-Pf-Priori...-Control': 'no-cache,
private', 'Content-Type': 'application/json
', 'X-Kubernetes-Pf-Flowschema-Uid': '
c4624bd9-7fc7-42c6-bcb8-4235110a860d', ...,
'Content-Length': '190'})
HTTP response body: {"kind":"Status","
apiVersion":"v1","metadata":{},"status":"
Failure","message":"pods \"example-pod\" not
found","reason":"NotFound","details":{"name
":"example-pod","kind":"pods"},"code":404}
```
- post-unittest-example-service-availability
```log
time="2024-11-24T13:26:02Z" level=warning
msg="Request Failed" error="Get \"http://
example-service.default.svc.cluster.local
:80\": dial tcp 10.96.152.112:80: connect:
connection refused"
http_reqs............: 11 2.14294/s
iteration_duration...: avg=466.61ms min
=211.73µs med=3.98ms max=1.03s p(90)=1.02s
p(95)=1.02s
iterations...........: 11 2.14294/s
vus..................: 1 min=1 max=1
vus_max..............: 1 min=1 max=1
time="2024-11-24T13:26:08Z" level=error msg
="thresholds on metrics 'http_req_failed'
have been crossed"
```
### Analysis report (1st try)
The chaos engineering experiment results
indicate several critical issues in the
system's configuration and its ability to
handle faults, particularly in the context
of the defined fault scenario. Here is a
detailed analysis of the failures observed
during the experiment:
1. **Pod Restart Policy and Single Pod
Deployment**:
- The 'fault-unittest-example-pod-running
' test failed because the Pod was not
found after the PodChaos fault was
injected. This is directly related to the
Pod's restart policy set to 'Never' in
the `nginx/pod.yaml` manifest. When the
Pod was killed, it did not restart,
leading to a 404 error when attempting to
read the Pod's status. This confirms the
identified issue #0 (Pod Restart Policy)
and issue #1 (Single Pod Deployment),
where the lack of redundancy and
automatic recovery mechanisms resulted in
the Pod being unavailable.
2. **Service Availability**:
- The 'fault-unittest-example-service-
availability' test failed due to
connection refusals, indicating that the
service was unavailable. This failure is
a consequence of the Pod being killed and
not restarting, as the Service relies on
the Pod to handle requests. The Service'
s selector in `nginx/service.yaml`
targets Pods with the label 'app: example
', and with the Pod being down, there
were no endpoints available to serve the
requests, leading to the connection
refused errors.
3. **Post-Validation Failures**:
- Both 'post-unittest-example-pod-running
' and 'post-unittest-example-service-
availability' tests failed, showing that
the system did not recover to its steady
state after the fault injection. The Pod
remained unavailable, and consequently,
the Service could not respond to HTTP
requests. This further highlights the
critical impact of the Pod's restart
policy and the lack of redundancy.
**Insights and Recommendations**:
- **Pod Restart Policy**: Change the Pod's
restart policy from 'Never' to 'Always' or '
OnFailure' to ensure that the Pod
automatically restarts if it fails. This
will help maintain the Pod's availability
and reduce downtime.
- **Redundancy and Scalability**: Implement
a Deployment or ReplicaSet to manage the Pod
. This will provide redundancy by running
multiple replicas of the Pod, ensuring that
the Service remains available even if one
Pod fails.
- **Service Resilience**: Consider using a
LoadBalancer or Ingress to manage traffic to
multiple Pods, enhancing the system's
ability to handle failures and maintain
service availability.
By addressing these issues, the system can
improve its resilience against similar fault
scenarios in the future, ensuring that the
steady states are maintained even when
faults are injected.
### Improvement result (1st try)
1 K8s manifests are modified:
- The K8s manifest 'nginx/pod.yaml' was
replaced.
Replace the Pod with a Deployment to manage
the Pod's lifecycle and provide redundancy.
This will ensure that multiple replicas of
the Pod are running and can automatically
restart if they fail.
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: example-deployment
labels:
app: example
spec:
replicas: 3
selector:
matchLabels:
app: example
template:
metadata:
labels:
app: example
spec:
containers:
- name: example-container
image: nginx:1.17.1
ports:
- containerPort: 80
```
### Experiment result (2nd try)
Passed unittests:
- pre-unittest-example-pod-running
- pre-unittest-example-service-availability
- fault-unittest-example-pod-running
- fault-unittest-example-service-
availability
- post-unittest-example-pod-running
- post-unittest-example-service-availability
Failed unittests:
22
===== PAGE 23 =====
Figure 4: The deployment environment of CHAOS EATER.
D Implementation Details
D.1 System Deployment
Figure 4 illustrates the deployment environment of
CHAOS EATER. CHAOS EATER currently supports
only development environments, where K8s
clusters are constructed on a single machine using
kind (Kubernetes, 2018). The web application
of CHAOS EATER is implemented with Streamlit
(Snowflake, 2020) and is deployed in a Docker
container. Users can interact with it via the
Graphical User Interface (GUI). After receiving
the user inputs, CHAOS EATER autonomously
completes a CE cycle for them while calling
LLM API. CHAOS EATER interacts with the K8s
(kind) clusters via K8s API, requesting resource
deployment, monitoring, and failure injection.
See https://github.com/ntt-dkiku/
chaos-eater/blob/main/README.md#
-quick-start for specific instructions on
setting up this environment.
D.2 Graphical User Interface
Figure 5 shows the GUI of CHAOS EATER. The
GUI resembles a typical chatbot interface, with a
sidebar that allows for detailed parameter settings.
At a minimum, all you need to do is upload the
K8s system files via the file uploader. Optionally,
you can enter Chaos Engineering instructions in the
chat box and control some parameters. The details
of the GUI controls are as follows.
(a) LLM setting You may change the LLMs
used by CHAOS EATER from the model drop-
down button. The currently supported LLMs are
GPT-4o (gpt-4o-2024-08-06 and gpt-4o-2024-05-
13), Claude (claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620), Gemini
(google/gemini-1.5-pro).
(b) Cluster setting Currently available clusters
are listed in the Cluster selection drop-
down button. When there are multiple kind clus-
ters, you may change the working kind cluster
from here. While the GUI browser is open, the
selected cluster will be occupied, and other users
will not see the same cluster in the dropdown
button. If you check Clean the cluster
before/after run, all resources in the se-
lected cluster, excect for CHAOS EATER’s, will be
removed before/after running every single CE cy-
cle. If you check New deployment, the input
K8s system will be deployed in the preprocessing
phase. If it is already deployed, you may uncheck
it to skip the deployment.
(c) Parameter setting You can control the pa-
rameters of the LLM agents for CHAOS EATER.
Seed for LLMs sets the random seed for the
LLMs (this is only effective when using Ope-
nAI models that support seed setting, such as
GPT-4o). Temperature for LLMs sets the
temperature of the LLMs. Max. number of
steady states sets the maximum number of
steady states proposed during the hypothesis phase.
Max retries sets the maximum number of it-
23
===== PAGE 24 =====
Figure 5: The GUI of C HAOS EATER
erations for the verification loop and improvement
loop. If the loop exceeds this limit, an assertion
error will occur, immediately terminating the app
at that point.
(d) Token usage You can monitor token usage in
real-time. The total cost is calculated based on the
official pricing tables as of September 2024.
(e) Input examples We prepare three types of
input examples. When you press each button, the
content of the K8s manifests to be input and the
instructions will be displayed in a dialog. Click
theTry this one button for the example you
wanna try, and a CE cycle will start for that input
example.
(f) Input box You can try your custom system
by inputting its data to the input box. First, input a
zipped folder to the file uploader box following the
input format instruction below (this step is manda-
tory). If you don’t have any instructions for the CE
cycle, click theSubmit w/o instructions
button, and a CE cycle will start for that input sys-
tem. If you do, write your instructions in the chat
box and click the send icon ▶ orEnter. Then, a
CE cycle that follows the instructions will start for
that input system.
Input format As input, CHAOS EATER currently
supports only a zipped Skaffold project folder,
which involves of a Skaffold configuration file and
K8s manifests. The Skaffold configuration file
must be placed in the root directory of the folder.
The K8s manifests can be placed anywhere, but en-
sure that their relative paths are correctly specified
in the manifests section of the Skaffold configura-
tion file.
D.3 Supported Failures
CHAOS EATER supports most of the Chaos Mesh
(Chaos Mesh, 2021) failure types except for
KernelChaos. Table 3 shows the supported fail-
ure types and their short descriptions. In the fol-
lowing, we provide some remarks on the supported
failure types.
KernelChaos is one of the strongest failures
and can affect other Pods that share the same
kernel as the target Pod. We believe that var-
ious failure scenarios can be sufficiently simu-
lated with only other types of failures. Therefore,
we have currently put the somewhat too strong
KernelChaos on hold. We may consider adding
KernelChaos in the future.
PodChaos, HTTPChaos, StressChaos,
andIOChaos include theduration parameter,
which specifies the duration of the failure injec-
tion. However, Chaos Mesh workflow manifests
do not currently support theduration parameter.
Therefore, we remove the duration parameter
from the JSON output instructions when detailing
the failure parameters in the failure definition of
the hypothesis phase. Alternatively, CHAOS EATER
specifies the duration of the failure injection using
1https://chaos-mesh.org/docs/
basic-features/
24
===== PAGE 25 =====
Table 3: Chaos Mesh failure types supported by CHAOS EATER. The descriptions are quoted from the official
document.1
Failure type Description
PodChaos It simulates Pod failures, such as Pod node restart, Pod’s persistent unavailability, and
certain container failures in a specific Pod.
NetworkChaos It simulates network failures, such as network latency, packet loss, packet disorder, and
network partitions.
DNSChaos It simulates DNS failures, such as the parsing failure of DNS domain name and the
wrong IP address returned.
HTTPChaos It simulates HTTP communication failures, such as HTTP communication latency.
StressChaos It simulates CPU race or memory race.
IOChaos It simulates the I/O failure of an application file, such as I/O delays, read and write
failures.
TimeChaos It simulates the time jump exception.
thedeadline parameter in the experiment plan-
ning of the experiment phase. This replacement is
officially recommended.2
The original PodChaos supports three sub-
types: pod-kill, pod-failure, and container-kill. On
the other hand, CHAOS EATER supports only pod-
kill and container-kill, but not pod-failure. Regard-
ing the pod-failure, the official document says “Pod
Failure Chaos Experiment would change the image
of each container in the target Pod to the ’pause
image’, which is a special image that does not
perform any operations. if the container is config-
ured without command, livenessProbe and readi-
nessProbe, the container would be inspected as
Running and Ready, although it had been changed
to the ’pause image’, and actually does not pro-
vide functionalities as normal or not-available."3
Therefore, the state changes of a Pod caused by
pod-failure depend on the configuration of live-
nessProbe and readinessProbe. Depending on their
interval settings, it is possible for thePod to be rec-
ognized as being in the Running state even while
pod-failure is being injected. Considering this is-
sue and some reported bugs45, we have currently
put pod-failure on hold.
2https://chaos-mesh.org/docs/
create-chaos-mesh-workflow/
#template-field-description
3https://chaos-mesh.org/docs/
simulate-pod-chaos-on-kubernetes/
4https://github.com/chaos-mesh/
chaos-mesh/issues/446
5https://github.com/chaos-mesh/
chaos-mesh/issues/2523
D.4 Agentic Workflow
D.4.1 Overall Design
To ensure that the LLM agents perform as intended,
CHAOS EATER fixes the general workflow accord-
ing to the systematic CE cycle. It then guides LLM
agents by assigning them subdivided CE opera-
tions within this workflow. CHAOS EATER prepares
prompt templates for each agent, 6 which include
placeholders where text is dynamically embedded.
Therefore, once the user inputs the data, prompts
for each agent are dynamically generated internally
by embedding the input data and its intermediate
outputs into the templates, and the agents that re-
ceive these prompts autonomously complete the
workflow (i.e., CE cycle). This is how full au-
tomation is achieved. To facilitate data process-
ing within CHAOS EATER, all agents output JSON
data. This is achieved by instructing agents in
their input prompts to output text in JSON for-
mat, and then parsing the output text as JSON data.
CHAOS EATER uses the JSON output instruction
and parser of LangChain (LangChain, 2023).
Figure 6 shows the agentic workflow of
CHAOS EATER. It has 20 agents, and they are
chained in series according to the systematic CE
cycle, with rule-based algorithms and verification
loops at several points. See Appendix D.5 for the
system prompt templates for each agent. The ad-
6Instead of simply appending previous data and agent out-
puts to the conversation history to create the next agent’s
prompt, we create a new conversation for each agent every
time and embed the organized previous data and agents’ out-
puts within it. However, the verification loop, which will be
discussed later, is an exception.
25
===== PAGE 26 =====
Figure 6: The agentic workflow of CHAOS EATER
vantages of dividing operations into smaller tasks
and organizing the agentic workflow as shown in
Figure 6 are as follows:
1. Task performance improvement; It is gen-
erally known that dividing complex tasks
into smaller sub-tasks enhances the perfor-
mance of LLMs in solving them7 (Khot et al.,
7https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/
build-with-claude/prompt-engineering/
chain-prompts
2023). In our case, this is also important for
managing context length and ensuring the
accuracy of JSON output. By dividing tasks,
the required input context for each agent can
be minimized, mitigating issues such as in-
formation loss in long contexts. Furthermore,
the JSON output structure for each agent can
be minimized to the necessary complexity,
reducing improperly formatted JSON out-
26
===== PAGE 27 =====
puts.
2. Flexibility and extensibility through agent
modularization; By modularizing agents for
each divided task, it becomes easier to make
partial system modifications, such as replac-
ing specific agents. This modularization also
makes it easier for team members to modify
agents collaboratively during development.
3. Towards an interactivity system; The cur-
rent CHAOS EATER is a fully automated sys-
tem with no user interaction during the CE
cycle. However, we plan to add interactive
functionalities in the future. When refining
outputs based on user feedback, the mod-
ularization allows querying only the mini-
mum necessary agents, thereby improving
the quality of re-generated outputs, similar
to the first advantage.
Considering the above advantages, we empirically
and manually optimized the workflow of agents
and their system prompt templates.
On the other hand, agent modularization has
some disadvantages, such as increased prompt man-
agement costs due to the greater number of prompts
and the challenge of maintaining control over all
agents as a unified system. Regarding the latter,
in the case study of SOCK SHOP, different behav-
iors were observed despite the fixed seed and a
temperature setting of 0. This implies the complex
behavior of multi-LLM agents and the difficulty
of their control. We believe that automatic prompt
tuning (Yang et al., 2024a; Sun et al., 2023; Pryzant
et al., 2023; Kwon et al., 2024; Hsieh et al., 2024)
and automatic workflow optimization (Li et al.,
2024; Zhuge et al., 2024; Zhou et al., 2024; Hu
et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2024) are promising for
overcoming these challenges.
In the following, we provide a detailed explana-
tion of the workflow design for each phase, which
could not be fully covered on the main page.
D.4.2 Phase 0: Pre-processing
Given the user input, CHAOS EATER first deploys
the user’s system to the K8s cluster by running
the Skaffold configuration file. Then, each agent
sequentially processes the user inputs as follows:
1. Summarize each of the input K8s manifests
separately.
2. Identify potential issues for resiliency and
redundancy in the K8s manifests.
3. Assume a possible application of the K8s
manifests.
4. Summarize user instructions for the CE cy-
cle if provided. At the same time, filter out
suspicious prompts, e.g., jailbreak prompts.
This phase is for deploying the user’s system and
explicitly filling in the implicit context of the user’s
input. In the subsequent phases, this added context
will also be provided as input.
D.4.3 Phase 1: Hypothesis
Steady-state definition Given the pre-processed
user inputs, each agent defines steady states as fol-
lows:
1. Select a measurable states critical to main-
taining the system’s application. If any weak
configurations are identified from the K8s
manifests, their related states are preferen-
tially selected.
2. Select a tool to inspect the state. K8s API
and k6 (Grafana Labs, 2021) are supported
as the tool. Then, write the corresponding
inspection script and inspect the current (nor-
mal) value of the state in the system by run-
ning the script.
3. Define the threshold for the state based on
the inspected value. Note that, according to
the definition of a steady state, the threshold
must be satisfied under the current condi-
tions.
4. Write a unit-test script that validates whether
the steady state (i.e., the pair of the state and
its threshold) is satisfied by adding threshold-
based assertions to the corresponding inspec-
tion script.
5. Check whether the currently defined steady
states are sufficient. If they are, the steady-
state definition is complete here. Otherwise,
return to the first step and define additional
steady states.
The unit-test scripts are used in the experiment
phase to mechanically validate the steady states
during chaos experiments. As mentioned in the
main page, we here call this unit-test-based vali-
dation approach Validation as Code (VaC). Naïve
approaches, such as validating steady states using
LLMs that take log data directly, do not guaran-
tee consistency in the validation process and may
even lead to incorrect judgments. On the other
hand, with VaC, the validation process becomes
fixed once a unit test is written, guaranteeing its
consistency. Furthermore, the explicit definition
of the process in code enhances its transparency.
Figure 7 shows examples of VaC scripts for K8s
27
===== PAGE 28 =====
(a) VaC script for K8s API (Python)
1 def check_podcount(label, expected_count, duration):
2 consistent_count = True
3 for i in range (duration):
4 pods = self.v1.list_namespaced_pod(
5 namespace='default',
6 label_selector=label)
7 pod_count = len(pods.items)
8 print(f"current pod count: {pod_count}")
9 consistent_count = pod_count == expected_count
10 if not consistent_count:
11 break
12 time.sleep(1)
13 assert consistent_count, "Pod count was inconsistent."
14 ...
(b) VaC script for k6 (Javascript)
1 export const options = {
2 vus: 10,
3 duration: '10s',
4 thresholds: {
5 http_req_duration: ['p(95)<500'],
6 },
7 };
8
9 export default function () {
10 const res = http.get('http://example.com');
11 check(res, {'status was 200': (r) =>
12 r.status == 200 });
13 sleep(1);
14 }
Figure 7: Examples of unit-test scripts to validate steady states.
API (Python) and k6 (Javascript). k6 can collect
communication metrics (e.g., response times, er-
ror rates, etc) while conducting load tests. In VaC,
k6 is used to inspect the communication metrics,
while K8s API is used to inspect the other states of
K8s resources. Both scripts allow for adjusting test
durations through command-line arguments. For
k6, the script also sets an appropriate number of
virtual users for the load tests.
In steps 2 and 4, scripts are repeatedly debugged
until they terminate successfully. In this verifica-
tion loop, as an exception, CHAOS EATER simply
appends the previous agent’s output and the re-
sulting error messages to the initial conversation
as conversation history, and uses it as the agent’s
prompt in the next loop. The verification loops
discussed later also follow the same process.
Failure definition Given the pre-processed user
inputs and the steady states, each agent defines
failures that may occur in the system as follows:
1. Assume a failure scenario (e.g., a surge in
access due to a promotional campaign, cyber
attack, etc.) that may occur in the system.
Then, define the sequence of failures that
simulates the scenario and may affect the de-
fined steady states. The failures are selected
from the failure types supported in Chaos
Mesh.
2. Define detailed parameters for each failure,
such as the scope of the failure injection, the
failure sub-type, the failure strength, etc.
In step 1, the agent outputs a 2D list of
Chaos Mesh failure type names, arranged in
the order of insertion. The inner lists in-
volve concurrent failures, and the outer list rep-
resents the injection order of each concurrent
failure set. For example, [[ StressChaos,
NetworkChaos], [PodChaos]] represents that
PodChaos is injected after simultaneously inject-
PodChaos parameters
1 action: pod-kill
2 mode: one
3 selector:
4 labelSelectors:
5 app: example
6 namespaces:
7 - default
Figure 8: An example of detailed parameters.
ingStressChaos andNetworkChaos.
In step 2, the agent separately defines the de-
tailed parameters of each failure. Each failure type
requires a different parameter set. Therefore, given
a failure type name, CHAOS EATER dynamically
selects the corresponding JSON output instruction.
Instructions for each of the seven supported failures
are prepared in advance based on the official Chaos
Mesh documentation. The agent then outputs the
corresponding parameter set. Figure 8 shows an ex-
ample of the parameter set ofPodChaos. See also
Dynamic instruction 1–7 for detailed parameter in-
struction for each failure type. The parameter sets
output by the agent are verified through a verifica-
tion loop, which repeatedly debugs them until their
Chaos Mesh manifests pass thekubectl apply
-dry-run=server command. The failure injec-
tion duration and more detailed injection timing are
defined in the next chaos experiment planning (see
next section), along with the duration and timing
for running the VaC scripts.
D.4.4 Phase 2: (Chaos) Experiment
Experiment planning Given the pre-processed
user inputs and the hypothesis, each agent plans a
chaos experiment that validates the hypothesis by
dividing it into the three stages (i.e., pre-validation,
failure-injection, and post-validation stages) as fol-
lows:
1. Determine the duration of each stage.
2. Determine the VaC scripts and failure injec-
28
===== PAGE 29 =====
Task node (K8s API)
1 - name: {{ node_name }}
2 templateType: Task
3 deadline: {{ duration }}
4 task:
5 container:
6 name: {{ node_name }} -container
7 image: chaos-eater/k8sapi:1.0
8 imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
9 command: ["/bin/bash", "-c"]
10 args: [
11 "python /chaos-eater/{{ path_to_vac_script }}
12 --duration {{ duration }} "
13 ]
14 ...
Task node (k6)
1 - name: {{ node_name }}
2 templateType: Task
3 deadline: {{ duration }}
4 task:
5 container:
6 name: {{ node_name }} -container
7 image: grafana/k6:latest
8 command: [
9 "k6", "run", "--duration", "{{ duration }} ",
10 "--quiet", "/chaos-eater/{{ path_to_vac_script }} "
11 ]
12 ...
Failure node
1 - name: {{ node_name }}
2 templateType: {{ name }}
3 deadline: {{ duration }}
4 {{ name }} :
5 {{ failure_params }}
Suspend node
1 - name: {{ node_name }}
2 templateType: Suspend
3 deadline: {{ duration }}
Serial group node
1 - name: {{ node_name }}
2 templateType: Serial
3 deadline: {{ duration }}
4 children:
5 {{ list_of_grouped_node_names }}
6 {{ code_snippets_of_grouped_nodes }}
Parallel group node
1 - name: {{ node_name }}
2 templateType: Parallel
3 deadline: {{ duration }}
4 children:
5 {{ list_of_grouped_node_names }}
6 {{ code_snippets_of_grouped_nodes }}
Figure 9: YAML code snippets for each node type. The blue double curly braces {{}} represent placeholders.
node_name is a node identifier automatically generated fromname.code_snippets_of_grouped_nodes
is filled with the complete code snippets of nodes that are grouped either serially or in parallel. The other placeholders
are filled with values from the items of the schedule list.
tions to be executed in each stage. For each
of them, specify the duration and grace pe-
riod within a range that does not exceed the
duration of the stage.
3. Summarize the timeline of the chaos experi-
ment in detail. This summary is referred to
when analyzing the experiment results.
In step 2, the agent outputs a list of dictionar-
ies (i.e., schedule list) separately for each stage,
with each dictionary containing three keys:name,
grace_period, andduration. The name is
either a steady state name or a failure type name,
and each corresponds one-to-one with the VaC
script or failure injection defined in the hypothesis.
Thegrace_period is the waiting time from the
start of each stage until the execution of the VaC
script or failure injection, allowing flexible adjust-
ment of the execution timing. The duration is
the execution period after the grace period.
After appending the corresponding failure and
VaC parameters to each item in the schedule lists,
CHAOS EATER converts these lists into a Chaos
Mesh workflow manifest. This manifest enables
the scheduling of VaC script execution and fail-
ure injection by constructing a workflow composed
of the following three types of nodes: failure
node for executing failure injection, task node
for executing VaC scripts, andsuspend node for
waiting a specified duration. CHAOS EATER hierar-
chically groups these nodes to construct complex
workflows. For convenience, we define each node
as the corresponding code snippet shown in Figure
9. Therefore, the functions that convert items of
the schedule list into nodes, as well as those that
group multiple nodes, correspond to operations that
fill the placeholder of these code snippets with the
argument data.
Algorithm 1 shows the hierarchical node group-
ing algorithm. The input is a directory that orga-
nizes the schedule lists for each stage. The algo-
rithm first iterates over the three stages. For each
state, each item in the stage’s schedule list is con-
verted to the corresponding type of node (line 5–8).
Next, each node that has a grace period greater than
zero is serially grouped with a suspend node.
Thissuspend node is placed before the grouped
node and waits for the duration of the grace period
of that node (line 10–12). Then, all the serially
grouped nodes and remaining nodes are grouped
in parallel (line 15). Finally, the nodes grouped in
parallel in each stage are grouped serially (line 17).
The output is the hierarchical group node, and by
adding a header and other necessary elements to
its code snippet, a Chaos Mesh workflow manifest
can be generated. Figure 10 shows an example of
hierarchically grouped nodes in this algorithm.
29
===== PAGE 30 =====
Algorithm 1: Hierarchical node grouping algorithm
Input : A schedule list output by the agentschedule_list (dict of list of dict);
e.g.,schedule_list = {
"pre-valid" : [{"name" :"pod-running","duration" :"20s", ...}, ...],
"failure-injection" : [{"name" :"PodChaos","duration" :"20s", ...}, ...],
"post-valid" : [{"name" :"pod-running","duration" :"20s", ...}, ...]
}
Output :A Chaos Mesh workflow node consisting of hierarchically grouped nodeshierarchical_node
1: all_group ← [ ]
2: for stage ∈ ["pre-valid", "failure-injection", "post-valid"] do
3: parallel_group ← [ ]
4: for item ∈ schedule_list.stage do
5: if IsFailureInjection(item) then
6: node ←CreateFailureNode(item.name,item.duration,item.failure_params)
7: else
8: node ←CreateTaskNode(item.name,item.duration,item.vac_params)
9: if item.grace_period > 0 then
10: suspend ←CreateSuspendNode(item.grace_period);
11: serial_group_node ←CreateSerialGroupNode([suspend,node]);
12: parallel_group.append(serial_group_node);
13: else
14: parallel_group.append(node);
15: parallel_group_node ←CreateParallelGroupNode()
16: all_group.append(parallel_group_node)
17: hierarchical_node ←CreateSerialGroupNode(all_group)
18: returnhierarchical_node
Experiment replanning (within the improve-
ment loop) Resource types and metadata defined
in the K8s manifests may be changed during theim-
provement phase. Therefore, replanning inspection
targets in VaC scripts and the scope of failure injec-
tions is required between the improvement phase
and the next experiment execution. Given the orig-
inal and reconfigured K8s manifests, as well as
the previous VaC scripts, an agent adjusts or re-
tains the inspection-target specifications in the VaC
scripts. The inspection targets refer to resource
specifications (line 11 and 12 in (a)), the request
DNS (line 13 in (b)), etc., in Figure 7. Given
the original and reconfigured K8s manifests, as
well as the previous failure-injection scope, an-
other agent adjusts or retains the scope for the
reconfigured manifests. The scope refers to the
selector filed in Figure 8. These adjustments
are also debugged through a verification loop. Af-
ter the adjustments, CHAOS EATER regenerates a
new ChaosMesh workflow manifest by replacing
only the path of VaC scripts of task nodes and
theselector field offailure nodes with ad-
justed ones. Note that this replanning only makes
minor adjustments to reflect the changes in the K8s
manifests, without altering the chaos experiment’s
original intent.
D.4.5 Phase 4: Improvement
Given the K8s manifests, the hypothesis, the ex-
periment plan, and the improvement loop history,
an agent reconfigures the K8s manifests so that
all the VaC scripts pass in the chaos experiment.
Here, the agent is instructed to make only mini-
mal changes in a single improvement step, aiming
for incremental improvement. This approach helps
prevent undesired improvements, such as resolv-
ing issues through excessive resource allocation.
The improvement loop history stores the history
of the experiment results, their analysis reports,
and their reconfigurations, within the improvement
loop. The history suppresses the repetition of the
same reconfiguration.
There are three reconfiguration modes:
create, delete, and replace. The agent
first selects the reconfiguration modes while
specifying file names, and then writes the re-
configured K8s manifests only for the create
and replace modes. The file manager of
CHAOS EATER then edits the folder from the previ-
ous improvement loop (in the first improvement, it
corresponds to the user’s input folder) according
to the agent’s output. Figure 11 illustrates this
reconfiguration process.
The verification loop is also conducted here: the
agent’s output is debugged repeatedly until all the
30
===== PAGE 31 =====
Figure 10: Hierarchical grouping for implementing a complex chaos experiment plan in Chaos Mesh.
Figure 11: Reconfiguration process by the agent and a
file management algorithm.
K8s manifests in the edited folder are correctly
applied to the K8s cluster without any errors.
D.5 System prompt templates
In this section, we share all prompt templates for
LLM agents of CHAOS EATER. Words enclosed in
blue curly braces {} denote placeholders that are
replaced with user input or the previous agent’s
outputs. Each placeholder has a unique variable
name, and placeholders with the same variable
name across different prompt templates will have
the same text embedded. Examples of the text
embedded in each placeholder are also provided
right after their associated prompt templates. On
the other hand, words enclosed in red curly braces
{} denote placeholders that are replaced with pre-
defined dynamic instructions. These pre-defined
instructions are dynamically selected and embed-
ded in the placeholders according to the conditions.
These dynamic instructions are also provided right
after their associated prompt templates. Words en-
closed in green curly braces {} denote placeholders
that are replaced with the same text as previously
introduced, in order to avoid repetition.
Although it is omitted in each prompt template,
a prefill will be inserted at the end of every prompt
template. Specifically, the first key in the JSON
output will be added as an AI’s message, as shown
in Figure 12. It eliminates redundant outputs and
improves the stability of the JSON outputs.
The term “fault" appears in the prompt templates
and the output of CHAOS EATER. this is aligned
with the terminology used in Chaos Mesh and has
the same meaning as “failure".
The prefill for the Agent #0-0
AI:
```json
{\"k8s_summary\":
Figure 12: An example of prefills.
D.5.1 Pre-processing
Prompt 2: Agent # 0-0 for summarizing K8s
manifests
System:
System: You are a professional Kubernetes (
k8s) engineer.
Given a K8s manifest, please summarize it
according to the following rules:
31
===== PAGE 32 =====
- The summary must be written in bullet
points.
- Summarize the functions of the K8s
manifest in a way that is understandable to
even beginners.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"k8s_summary": {
"title": "K8S Summary",
"description": "Summary of the K8s
manifest. Summarize it in bullet
points like '- the 1st line\n- the
second line...'",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"k8s_summary"
]
}
```
Human:
# K8s manifest
{k8s_yaml}
Please summarize the above K8s manifest.
Example 2: k8s_yaml
```nginx/pod.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
name: example-pod
labels:
app: example
spec:
restartPolicy: Never
containers:
- name: example-container
image: nginx:1.17.1
ports:
- containerPort: 80
```
Prompt 3: Agent # 0-1 for finding potential
weaknesses
System:
You are a professional Kubernetes (K8s)
engineer.
Given K8s manifests for a system, you will
identify their potential issues for
resiliency and redundancy when failures
occur in the system.
Always keep the following rules:
- List each issue with its name, associated
K8s manifest(s), potential issues due to
fault injection, and the configuration
causing the issues (no need to suggest
improvements).
- If the same issue exists in different
manifests, merge them into a single issue,
specifying all the associated manifest names
.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"issues": {
"title": "Issues",
"description": "List issues with its
name, potential issues due to fault
injection, and manifest configuration
causing the issues (no need to suggest
improvements).",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"$ref": "#/definitions/K8sIssue"
}
}
},
"required": [
"issues"
],
"definitions": {
"K8sIssue": {
"title": "K8sIssue",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"issue_name": {
"title": "Issue Name",
"description": "Issue name",
"type": "string"
},
"issue_details": {
"title": "Issue Details",
"description": "potential issues
due to fault injection",
"type": "string"
},
"manifests": {
"title": "Manifests",
"description": "manifest names
having the issues",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"problematic_config": {
"title": "Problematic Config",
"description": "problematic
configuration causing the issues (
no need to suggest improvements)
.",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"issue_name",
"issue_details",
"manifests",
"problematic_config"
]
}
}
}
```
Human:
# Here are the K8s manifests for my system.
32
===== PAGE 33 =====
{k8s_yamls}
Please list issues for each K8s manifest.
Example 3: k8s_yamls
```nginx/pod.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
name: example-pod
labels:
app: example
spec:
restartPolicy: Never
containers:
- name: example-container
image: nginx:1.17.1
ports:
- containerPort: 80
```
```nginx/service.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: example-service
spec:
selector:
app: example
ports:
- protocol: TCP
port: 80
targetPort: 80
```
Prompt 4: Agent # 0-2 for assuming an ap-
plication
System:
You are a professional Kubernetes (k8s)
engineer.
Given k8s manifests and dependencies between
them, please assume a real-world
application (service) of the manifests
according to the following rules:
- If the application is explicitly specified
in the instructions, assume it.
- You can leverage any given information,
including file name, manifests, and
dependencies, to guess the purpose of the
manifests.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"description": "Before assuming an
application, reason logically why you
assume it for the given manifests. e.g
., from file name, instructions, or
other elements?",
"type": "string"
},
"k8s_application": {
"title": "K8S Application",
"description": "Specify what the
service (application) offers to users
.",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"thought",
"k8s_application"
]
}
```
Human:
{user_input}
Please assume a real-world application of
the manifests.
Example 4: user_input
# K8s manifest:
```nginx/pod.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
name: example-pod
labels:
app: example
spec:
restartPolicy: Never
containers:
- name: example-container
image: nginx:1.17.1
ports:
- containerPort: 80
```
# Summary of nginx/pod.yaml:
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes Pod.
- The Pod is named 'example-pod'.
- It includes metadata with a label 'app:
example'.
- The Pod's restart policy is set to 'Never
', meaning it won't restart automatically if
it fails.
- The Pod contains one container named '
example-container'.
- The container uses the 'nginx:1.17.1'
image.
- The container exposes port 80, which is
typically used for HTTP traffic.
# K8s manifest:
```nginx/service.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: example-service
spec:
selector:
app: example
ports:
- protocol: TCP
port: 80
targetPort: 80
```
# Summary of nginx/service.yaml:
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes Service
.
- The Service is named 'example-service'.
- It uses the 'v1' API version.
- The Service selects pods with the label '
app: example'.
- It exposes the Service on port 80 using
the TCP protocol.
- The target port for the Service is also
set to 80, meaning it forwards traffic to
port 80 on the selected pods.
33
===== PAGE 34 =====
Prompt 5: Agent # 0-3 for summarizing user
instructions
System:
You are a professional Chaos Engineering
practitioner.
Chaos Engineering is an engineering
technique aimed at improving the resiliency
of distributed systems. It involves
artificially injecting specific failures
into a distributed system and observing its
behavior in response. Based on the
observation, the system can be proactively
improved to handle those failures.
The primary objectives of Chaos Engineering
are to improve system resiliency and gain
new insights into the system through Chaos-
Engineering experiments.\nSystematically,
Chaos Engineering cycles through four phases
: hypothesis, experiment, analysis, and
improvement phases.
1) Hypothesis: Define steady states (i.e.,
normal behavior) of the system and
injected failures (i.e., faults). Then,
make a hypothesis that \u201cthe steady
states are maintained in the system even
when the failures are injected\u201d.
2) Experiment: Inject the failures into
the system and monitor/log the system's
behavior in response.
3) Analysis: Analyze the logged data and
check if the hypothesis is satisfied. If
so, one CE cycle is finished here. If not,
move to (4)
4) Improvement: Reconfigure the system to
satisfy the hypothesis. The reconfigured
system is tested again in (2) and (3), i.e
., repeat (2) to (4) until the hypothesis
is satisfied.
Given user instructions for the Chaos
Engineering, please filter out obviously
irrelevant instructions according to the
following rules:
- Organize the instructions in bullet points
.
- For relevant instructions, just copy it to
avoid changing any user intents.\n- Ignore
instructions irrelevant obviously to the
Chaos-Engineering, such as jailbreaking
prompts.
- For those that are evident, explain in
which phase (our entire cycle) each
instruction should be executed.
- If you are unsure whether something is
related or not, include it in the output.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"ce_instructions": {
"title": "Ce Instructions",
"description": "Summary of the given
instructions for the Chaos Engineering
. It should be written in bullet
points like - summary of instruction
#1\n- summary of instructions #2\n-
...",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"ce_instructions"
]
}
```
Human:
# Instructions
{ce_instructions}
Please filter out the above instructions for
the CE.
Example 5: ce_instructions
The Chaos-Engineering experiment must be
completed within 1 minute.
D.5.2 Hypothesis
Prompt 6: Agent # 1-0 for drafting a steady
state
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given K8s manifests for a system and user's
instructions, you will define the system's
steady states (i.e., normal behaviors) that
are related to potential issues of the
system.
Always keep the following rules:
- Define steady states one by one, starting
with the steady state related to the K8s
resource that is easiest to encounter issues
when certain failures occur.
- Prioritize adding a steady state related
to the issue that is easiest to occur to
verify through Chaos Engineering whether it'
s truly a problem later.
- An added steady state must be a measurable
output, such as the number of pods,
throughput, error rates, latency percentiles
, etc.
- An added steady state must be specific to
a SINGLE K8s resource (i.e., manifest)
having potential issues for resilency and
redundancy.
- An added steady state must be different
from the already defined ones.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
```
{
"properties": {
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"description": "Describe your thought
process of determing the steady state
of a SINGLE K8s resource (i.e.,
manifest) that is easiest to encounter
the issues. Describe also the details
of the steady state itself.",
34
===== PAGE 35 =====
"type": "string"
},
"manifest": {
"title": "Manifest",
"description": "The targeted K8s-
manifest name. Specify a SINGLE
manifest.",
"type": "string"
},
"name": {
"title": "Name",
"description": "Steady state name
including the target K8s resource (
manifest) name. Please write it using
a-z, A-Z, and 0-9.",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"thought",
"manifest",
"name"
]
}
```
Human:
# Here is the overview of my system:
{user_input2}
# Please follow the instructions below
regarding Chaos Engineering:
{ce_instructions}
# Steady states already defined are as
follows:
{predefined_steady_states}
# The plan for defining the next state is as
follows:
{prev_check_thought}
Now, define a steady state that are
different from the already defined steady
states.
Example 6: user_input2
# The system consists of the following K8s
manifest(s):
//{user_input}//
# The resiliency issues/weaknesses in the
system are as follows:
Issue #0: Pod Restart Policy
- details: The Pod will not restart
automatically if it fails, which can lead
to downtime.
- manifests having the issues: ['nginx/pod
.yaml']
- problematic config: restartPolicy: Never
Issue #1: Single Pod Deployment
- details: Using a single Pod without a
controller like Deployment or ReplicaSet
can lead to lack of redundancy and no
automatic recovery if the Pod fails.
- manifests having the issues: ['nginx/pod
.yaml']
- problematic config: kind: Pod
# The expected type of application on the
system (i.e., K8s manifests):
Web server application using Nginx to serve
HTTP content.; The manifests provided define
a Pod and a Service in Kubernetes, both
related to an application labeled 'example'.
The Pod runs an Nginx container, which is a
popular web server and reverse proxy server
. The Service is configured to expose this
Pod on port 80, which is the default port
for HTTP traffic. Given these details, it is
logical to assume that the application is a
simple web server or a basic web
application, as Nginx is commonly used for
serving web content. The file names and the
use of Nginx further support this assumption
.
Example 7:
predefined_steady_states
1 steady states are defined.
1st steady states:
- Name: example-pod-running
- Description: The first issue to address is
the Pod Restart Policy Issue, as it is
directly related to the Pod's ability to
recover from failures. Since the Pod is
configured with a 'Never' restart policy, it
will not restart automatically if it fails,
leading to potential downtime. Therefore,
the steady state should verify that the Pod
is running and not in a failed state. This
can be measured by checking the number of
running Pods, which should be 1, as there is
only one Pod defined in the manifest.
- Threshold for the steady state: The '
example-pod' must be in the 'Running' state
at least 54 out of 60 seconds (90% of the
time) during a 1-minute monitoring period.;
The steady state we are considering is
whether the 'example-pod' is running. The
current state shows that the pod was running
for 5 out of 5 seconds, which is 100% of
the time during the monitoring period. Given
the constraints of the system, such as the
single pod deployment and the 'Never'
restart policy, we need to set a threshold
that accounts for potential minor
fluctuations while still ensuring the pod is
mostly available. Since the chaos
experiment must be completed within 1 minute
, we can set the threshold to require the
pod to be running at least 90% of the time
during a 1-minute monitoring period. This
allows for some brief interruptions while
still maintaining a high level of
availability.
- Whether the steady state meets the
threshold is determined by the following
Python script with K8s API:
```
import os
import time
import argparse
from kubernetes import client, config
from unittest_base import K8sAPIBase
class TestPodRunningState(K8sAPIBase):
def __init__(self):
super().__init__()
def check_pod_running_state(self,
duration):
pod_name = 'example-pod'
namespace = 'default'
running_count = 0
for _ in range(duration):
try:
pod = self.v1.read_namespaced_pod(
name=pod_name, namespace=namespace
)
if pod.status.phase == 'Running':
running_count += 1
print(f\"Pod {pod_name} status:
{pod.status.phase}\")
except client.exceptions.
ApiException as e:
print(f\"Exception when calling
CoreV1Api->read_namespaced_pod: {e
}\")
time.sleep(1)
# Calculate the percentage of time
35
===== PAGE 36 =====
the pod was running
running_percentage = (running_count
/ duration) * 100
print(f\"Pod was running {
running_count} out of {duration}
seconds, which is {
running_percentage:.2f}% of the time
.\")
# Assert that the pod was running at
least 90% of the time
assert running_percentage >= 90, f\"
Pod running percentage {
running_percentage:.2f}% is below
the threshold of 90%.\"
def main():
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(
description='Test the running state of a
Kubernetes Pod.')
parser.add_argument('--duration', type=int
, default=60, help='Duration to check the
Pod status in seconds.')
args = parser.parse_args()
test = TestPodRunningState()
test.check_pod_running_state(args.duration
)
if __name__ == '__main__':
main()
Example 8: prev_check_thought
The current steady state focuses on ensuring
that the 'example-pod' is running at least
90% of the time during a 1-minute monitoring
period. This addresses the Pod Restart
Policy Issue by verifying the pod's
availability despite its 'Never' restart
policy. However, the system also has a
Single Pod Deployment issue, which means
there is no redundancy. If the single pod
fails, the service will be disrupted. The
current steady state does not address this
redundancy issue. To ensure the system's
resilience, an additional steady state
should be defined to verify that the service
remains available even if the single pod
fails. This could involve checking the
service's response or availability from an
external perspective, ensuring that the
service is accessible and responsive, which
would indirectly address the redundancy
issue by ensuring service continuity.
Prompt 7: Agent # 1-1 for defining an in-
spection strategy
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given Kubernetes (K8s) manifests for a
network system and its state type, you will
inspect the current value of the state type.
Always keep the following rules:
- You can use either K8s API (Python) or k6
(Javascript) to inspect the state.
- Use the K8s API for checking the current
state of K8s resources
- Use k6 for checking communication statuses
/metrics, such as request sending, response
time, latency, etc.
- If you use K8s API, consider appropriate
test duration. If you use k6, consider not
only appropriate test duration but also an
appropriate number of virtual users in the
load test.
- Pay attention to namespace specification.
If the namespace is specified in the
manifest, it is deployed with the namespace.
If not, it is deployed with the 'default'
namespace.
- When sending requests to a K8s resources,
use their internal DNS names in the format:
```service-name.namespace.svc.cluster.local:
port```. For the port setting, use the
service port, not the targetPort or nodePort
. Ensure that the port matches the service
port defined in the manifest.
- If other request formats are provided by
the user, follow the user's format.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"description": "Describe your thoughts
for the tool usage. e.g., the reason
why you choose the tool and how to use
.",
"type": "string"
},
"tool_type": {
"title": "Tool Type",
"description": "Tool to inspect the
steady state. Select from ['k8s', 'k6
'].",
"enum": [
"k8s",
"k6"
],
"type": "string"
},
"tool": {
"title": "Tool",
"description": "If tool_tyepe='k8s',
write here K8sAPI. If tool_tyepe='k6',
write here K6JS.",
"anyOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/K8sAPI"
},
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/K6JS"
}
]
}
},
"required": [
"thought",
"tool_type",
"tool"
],
"definitions": {
"K8sAPI": {
"title": "K8sAPI",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"duration": {
"title": "Duration",
"description": "Duration of the
status check every second in a for
loop. Set appropriate duration to
check the current state of the
system. The maximum duration is 5s
.",
"type": "string"
},
36
===== PAGE 37 =====
"script": {
"title": "Script",
"description": "Python script with
K8s client libraries to inspect
the current status of a K8s
resource. Write only the content
of the code, and for dictionary
values, enclose them within a pair
of single double quotes (\").
Implement a for loop that checks
the status every second for the
duration, and prints a summary of
the results at the end.\n- To
support docker env, please
configure the client as follows:
```\n# Load Kubernetes
configuration based on the
environment\n if os.getenv('
KUBERNETES_SERVICE_HOST'):\n
config.
load_incluster_config()\n else
:\n config.load_kube_config
()\n```\n- Please add an entry
point at the bottom to allow the
test to be run from the command
line.\n- Please add argparse '--
duration' (type=int) so that users
can specify the loop duration.",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"duration",
"script"
]
},
"K6JS": {
"title": "K6JS",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"vus": {
"title": "Vus",
"description": "The number of
virtual users. You can run a load
test with the number of virtual
users.",
"type": "integer"
},
"duration": {
"title": "Duration",
"description": "Duration of the
load test. Set appropriate
duration to check the current
state of the system. The maximum
duration is 5s.",
"type": "string"
},
"script": {
"title": "Script",
"description": "k6 javascript to
inspect the current state. Write
only the content of the code, and
for dictionary values, enclose
them within a pair of single
double quotes (\"). In options in
the javascript, set the same 'vus'
and 'duration' options as the
above. The interval of status
check must be 1s second(s). Set a
threshold that triggers an error
when a request failure is clearly
occurring.",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"vus",
"duration",
"script"
]
}
}
}
```
Human:
# Here is the overview of my system:
{user_input2}
# You will inspect the following steady
state in my system:
{steady_state_name}: {steady_state_thought}
# Please follow the instructions below
regarding Chaos Engineering:
{ce_instructions}
Please define the way to inspect "{
steady_state_name}" in the system defined by
the above k8s manifest(s).
In the verification loop, the prompts below will be
stacked as history
AI:
{output}
Human:
Your current inspection script causes errors
when conducted.
The error message is as follows:
{error_message}
Please analyze the reason why the errors
occur, then fix the errors.
Always keep the following rules:
- NEVER repeat the same fixes that have been
made in the past.
- Fix only the parts related to the errors
without changing the original content.
- If requests failed, double-check if the
service port is correct.
- You can change the tool (k8s -> k6 or k6
-> k8s) if it can keep the original
intention.
- {the same format instructions as in the
System role}
Example 9: steady_state_name
example-pod-running-state
Example 10:
steady_state_thought
The first issue to address is the Pod's
restart policy set to 'Never' in the 'nginx/
pod.yaml' manifest. This is a critical issue
because if the Pod fails, it will not
restart automatically, leading to potential
downtime. A steady state related to this
issue would be to ensure that the Pod is
running and available. This can be measured
by checking the number of running Pods.
Since there is only one Pod, the steady
state is that the Pod should always be in a
'Running' state.
Prompt 8: Agent # 1-2 for defining a thresh-
old
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given k8s manifests for a system, its steady
37
===== PAGE 38 =====
state, and the current value of the steady
state, you will define the threshold for the
steady state.
Always keep the following rules:
- The threshold must include reasonable
tolerance that makes the threshold being
more easiliy satisfied to account for some
fluctuations.
- The current value of the steady state must
satisfy the threshold (including tolerance)
as the currrent value is the normal state
and the threshold represents whether the
system remains normal.
- If redundancy already exists in the
resource, define at least the minimum
required value as the threshold.
- Explicitly specify all values related to
the threshold, such as the number of
resources that must be satisfied, the
percentage of time it must be satisfied
within the monitoring period, etc.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"description": "Write your thought
process to determine the threshold of
the steady state.",
"type": "string"
},
"threshold": {
"title": "Threshold",
"description": "the threshold of the
steady state, which should be
satisfied in the current state.",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"thought",
"threshold"
]
}
```
Human:
# Here is the overview of my system:
{user_input2}
# You will determine a reasonable threshold
for the following steady state of my system:
{steady_state_name}: {steady_state_thought}
{inspection_summary}
# Please follow the instructions below
regarding Chaos Engineering:
{ce_instructions}
Now, please define a reasonable threshold
for the steady state according to the above
information.
Example 11: inspection_summary
# The Python code of k8s client libraries to
inspect the current state of the steady
state and its result are the following:
## Script:
```python
import os
import time
from kubernetes import client, config
def check_pod_status(namespace, pod_name,
duration):
# Load Kubernetes configuration based on
the environment
if os.getenv('KUBERNETES_SERVICE_HOST'):
config.load_incluster_config()
else:
config.load_kube_config()
v1 = client.CoreV1Api()
running_count = 0
for _ in range(duration):
try:
pod = v1.read_namespaced_pod(
name=pod_name, namespace=
namespace)
if pod.status.phase == 'Running
':
running_count += 1
print(f\"Pod status: {pod.
status.phase}\")
except client.exceptions.
ApiException as e:
print(f\"Exception when calling
CoreV1Api->read_namespaced_pod:
{e}\")
time.sleep(1)
print(f\"Pod was running {running_count}
out of {duration} seconds.\")
if __name__ == '__main__':
import argparse
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(
description='Check the running state of
a Pod.')
parser.add_argument('--duration', type=
int, default=5, help='Duration to check
the Pod status in seconds.')
args = parser.parse_args()
check_pod_status(namespace='default',
pod_name='example-pod', duration=args.
duration)
```
## Result (current state):
Pod status: Running
Pod status: Running
Pod status: Running
Pod status: Running
Pod status: Running
Pod was running 5 out of 5 seconds.
Prompt 9: Agent # 1-3-a for writing a VaC
script of K8s Python API
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for writing
unit tests in Python.
Given the steady state, python script to
inspect it, and its threshold, please write
a Python unit test (including for-loop for
certain duration) to verify if the steady
state satisfies the threshold by adding
assertion.
Always keep the following rules:
- Include as many comments as possible in
your code so that humans can easily
understand what you did later.
- Use the Kubernetes Python API.
38
===== PAGE 39 =====
- Add argparse '--duration' (type=int) so
that users can specify the loop duration as
the previous python script.
- NEVER use "unittest" module to use
argparse.
- Create a unit test by inheriting from the
'K8sAPIBase' class below (available via ```
from unittest_base import K8sAPIBase```):
```python
import os
from kubernetes import client, config
class K8sAPIBase:
def __init__(self):
# Load Kubernetes configuration
based on the environment
if os.getenv('
KUBERNETES_SERVICE_HOST'):
config.load_incluster_config()
else:
config.load_kube_config()
# Create a Kubernetes API client
self.v1 = client.CoreV1Api()
```
- Add an entry point at the bottom to allow
the test to be run from the command line, as
follows:
```
if __name__ == '__main__':
main()
```
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"description": "Describe how you add
the threshold assertion to the
inspection Python script.",
"type": "string"
},
"code": {
"title": "Code",
"description": "Python unit test code.
Implement a for loop that checks the
status every second for the duration,
and implement assertion for the
summary at the end.\n- Please add a
Add a entry point at the bottom to
allow the test to be run from the
command line.\n- Please add argparse
'--duration' (type=int) so that users
can specify the loop duration. Write
only the content of the code, and for
dictionary values, enclose them within
a pair of single double quotes (\")
.",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"thought",
"code"
]
}
```
Human:
The steady state:
{steady_state_name}: {steady_state_thought}
The steady state was inspected with the
following python code of k8s client
libraries:
{script (inspection_summary without results)
}
The threshold of the steady state: {
steady_state_threshold}; {
steady_state_threshold_description}
Given the above steady state, command, and
threshold, please write a Python unit test
to check if the steady state satisfies the
threshold.
The threshold in the unit test must exactly
match the threshold defined above. Implement
it to support variable durations. Use a
representative value (e.g., percentage,
ratio, etc.) for the threshold. NEVER use
any fixed absolute values for the threshold.
In the verification loop, the prompts below will be
stacked as history
AI:
{output}
User:
Your current unittest cause errors when
coducted.
The error message is as follows:
{error_message}
Please analyze the reason why the errors
occur, then fix the errors.
Always keep the following rules:
- Ensure that the implementation supports
variable durations again.
- NEVER repeat the same fixes that have been
made in the past.
- Fix only the parts related to the errors
without changing the original content.
- {the same format instructions as in the
System role}
Prompt 10: Agent # 1-3-b for writing a VaC
script of K6 Javascript
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for writing
unit tests in k6.
Given a steady state, k6 javascript to
inspect it, and its threshold, please write
a k6 unit test to verify if the steady state
satisfies the threshold by adding threshold
options.
Always keep the following rules:
- Include as many comments as possible in
your code so that humans can easily
understand what you did later.
- Add "thresholds" in "options" section to
the given k6 javascript.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
39
===== PAGE 40 =====
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"description": "Describe how you add
the threshold check to the inspection
K6 script.",
"type": "string"
},
"code": {
"title": "Code",
"description": "K6 unit test code (
javascript). Write only the content of
the code, and for dictionary values,
enclose them within a pair of single
double quotes (\").",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"thought",
"code"
]
}
```
Human:
The steady state:
{steady_state_name}: {steady_state_thought}
The steady state can be inspected with the
following k6 javascript:
{script (inspection_summary without results)
}
The threshold of the steady state:
{steady_state_threshold};
{threshold_description}
Given the above steady state, k6 javascript,
and threshold, please write a k6 unit test
to check if the steady state satisfies the
threshold by adding threshold options.
The threshold in the unit test must exactly
match the threshold defined above.
In the verification loop, the prompts below will be
stacked as history
AI:
{output}
User:
Your current unittest cause errors when
coducted.
The error message is as follows:
{error_message}
Please analyze the reason why the errors
occur, then fix the errors.
Always keep the following rules:
- Ensure that the implementation supports
variable durations again.
- NEVER repeat the same fixes that have been
made in the past.
- Fix only the parts related to the errors
without changing the original content.
- {the same format instructions as in the
System role}
Example 12:
steady_state_threshold
The Pod should be in the 'Running' state at
least 90\% of the time during the
observation period.
Example 13:
threshold_description
The steady state we are considering is the '
example-pod-running-state', which requires
the Pod to be in a 'Running' state. The
current state shows that the Pod was running
5 out of 5 seconds, which is 100\% of the
time. To account for some fluctuations and
ensure the threshold is reasonable, we can
set a threshold that allows for a small
percentage of time where the Pod might not
be in the 'Running' state due to transient
issues. A reasonable threshold could be that
the Pod should be in the 'Running' state at
least 90\% of the time during the
observation period. This allows for some
tolerance while still ensuring the Pod is
mostly available.
Prompt 11: Agent # 1-4 for checking the
listed steady states are sufficient
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given K8s manifests for a system, user's
instructions, and steady states already
defined, you will determine whether an
additional steady state needs to be defined.
Always keep the following rules:
- Clearly describe the reason for
determining whether an additional steady
state is needed.
- You may also cite the user's instructions
as the reason.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"description": "Describe your thought
process of determing whether an
additional steady states is needed.",
"type": "string"
},
"requires_addition": {
"title": "Requires Addition",
"description": "The necessity of an
additional steady state. If it is
needed, select 'True'; otherwise
select 'False'.",
"type": "boolean"
}
},
"required": [
"thought",
"requires_addition"
]
}
```
Human:
# Here is the overview of my system:
{user_input2}
40
===== PAGE 41 =====
# Please follow the instructions below
regarding Chaos Engineering:
{ce_instructions}
# Steady states already defined are as
follows:
{predefined_steady_states}
Now, determine whether an additional steady
state needs to be defined.
Prompt 12: Agent # 1-5 for drafting failure
injection
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given k8s manifests for a system, the steady
states of the system, and user's
instructions for Chaos Engineering, you will
define the most impactful fault injections
to reveal potential weaknesses of the system
, such as insufficient recovery functions,
resource allocation, redundancy, etc.
Always keep the following rules:
- First, assume a real-world event that may
be most impactful in the the system, such as
promotion campaign, cyber attacks,
disasters, etc.
- Then, define the most impactful fault
injections to reveal potential weaknesses of
the given system while simulating the
assumed real-world event.
- Prioritize fault injections that target
the system's weak resources related to the
steady states to verify whether those
resources can handle the faults and the
steady states can be maintained.
- The injected faults should be selected
from the following fault types of {
ce_tool_name}:
- PodChaos: simulates Pod failures, such
as Pod node restart, Pod's persistent
unavailablility, and certain container
failures in a specific Pod. The supported
subtypes include 'pod-failure', 'pod-kill
', 'container-kill'.
- NetworkChaos: simulates network failures
, such as network latency, packet loss,
packet disorder, and network partitions.
- DNSChaos: simulates DNS failures, such
as the parsing failure of DNS domain name
and the wrong IP address returned.
- HTTPChaos: simulates HTTP communication
failures, such as HTTP communication
latency.
- StressChaos: simulates CPU race or
memory race.
- IOChaos: simulates the I/O failure of an
application file, such as I/O delays,
read and write failures.
- TimeChaos: simulates the time jump
exception.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"event": {
"title": "Event",
"description": "Consider a real-world
fault event that may be most impactful
of the system, such as promotion
campaign, cyber attacks, disasters,
etc.",
"type": "string"
},
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"description": "Write down your
thought process to define a sequence
of fault injections that exploit the
system's weaknesses of while
simulating the fault event: 1) how the
system's weaknesses affect the steady
state; 2) how each fault injection
exploit the system's weaknesses; 3)
how the sequence simulates the
phenamena in the fault event (consider
carefully the sequence order).
Prioritize fault injections that
directly attack the weaknessses of the
system, such as insufficient recovery
functions, resource allocation,
redundancy, etc.",
"type": "string"
},
"faults": {
"title": "Faults",
"description": "Define a sequence of
fault injections that exploit the
system's vulnerabilities to the
fullest according to the above
thoughts. In the inner list, a set of
simultaneously injected faults are
listed, while in the outer list, the
sets are listed in the injection order
. For example, [[fault_a], [fault_b,
fault_c]] indicates that fault_a is
injected, then fault_b and fault_c are
injected simultaneously.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "array",
"items": {
"\$ref": "#/definitions/Fault"
}
}
}
},
"required": [
"event",
"thought",
"faults"
],
"definitions": {
"Fault": {
"title": "Fault",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"name": {
"title": "Name",
"description": "Select a fault
type from [\"PodChaos\", \"
NetworkChaos\", \"DNSChaos\", \"
HTTPChaos\", \"StressChaos\", \"
IOChaos\", \"TimeChaos\"]",
"enum": [
"PodChaos",
"NetworkChaos",
"DNSChaos",
"HTTPChaos",
"StressChaos",
"IOChaos",
"TimeChaos"
],
"type": "string"
},
"name_id": {
"title": "Name Id",
"description": "An identifier to
prevent name conflicts when the
41
===== PAGE 42 =====
same Fault appears. Assign numbers
starting from 0 in sequential
order to prevent name conflicts.",
"type": "integer"
},
"scope": {
"title": "Scope",
"description": "Specify only the
fault injection scope (i.e., the
target resource where the fault is
injected) in advance here.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"required": [
"name",
"name_id",
"scope"
]
}
}
}
```
Human:
Here is the overview of my system:
{user_input2}
Steady states of the network system defined
by the manifests are the following:
{steady_states}
Please follow the instructions below
regarding Chaos Engineering as necessary:
{ce_instructions}
Now, please define fault injections to
reveal the system's vulnerabilities.
Example 14: steady_states
Steady states of the network system defined
by the manifests are the following:
2 steady states are defined.
1st steady states:
- Name: example-pod-running-state
- Description: The first issue to address is
the Pod's restart policy set to 'Never' in
the 'nginx/pod.yaml' manifest. This is a
critical issue because if the Pod fails, it
will not restart automatically, leading to
potential downtime. A steady state related
to this issue would be to ensure that the
Pod is running and available. This can be
measured by checking the number of running
Pods. Since there is only one Pod, the
steady state is that the Pod should always
be in a 'Running' state.
- Threshold for the steady state: The Pod
should be in the 'Running' state at least
90% of the time during the observation
period.; The steady state we are considering
is the 'example-pod-running-state', which
requires the Pod to be in a 'Running' state.
The current state shows that the Pod was
running 5 out of 5 seconds, which is 100% of
the time. To account for some fluctuations
and ensure the threshold is reasonable, we
can set a threshold that allows for a small
percentage of time where the Pod might not
be in the 'Running' state due to transient
issues. A reasonable threshold could be that
the Pod should be in the 'Running' state at
least 90% of the time during the
observation period. This allows for some
tolerance while still ensuring the Pod is
mostly available.
- Whether the steady state meets the
threshold is determined by the following
Python script with K8s API:
```
import os
import time
import argparse
from kubernetes import client, config
from unittest_base import K8sAPIBase
class TestPodRunningState(K8sAPIBase):
...
if __name__ == '__main__':
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(
description='Test the running state of a
Pod.')
parser.add_argument('--duration', type=
int, default=5, help='Duration to check
the Pod status in seconds.')
args = parser.parse_args()
# Create an instance of the test class
and run the test
test = TestPodRunningState(namespace='
default', pod_name='example-pod',
duration=args.duration)
test.test_pod_running_state()
```
2nd steady states:
- Name: example-service-http-response-state
- Description: The next issue to address is
the lack of redundancy due to the single Pod
deployment in the 'nginx/pod.yaml' manifest
. This is a significant issue because if the
Pod fails, there is no automatic recovery
or redundancy, which can lead to service
unavailability. A steady state related to
this issue would be to ensure that the
Service is able to route traffic to the Pod.
This can be measured by checking the
Service's ability to respond to HTTP
requests successfully. Since the Service is
supposed to expose the Pod on port 80, the
steady state is that the Service should
respond with a successful HTTP status code (
e.g., 200 OK) for a certain percentage of
requests.
- Threshold for the steady state: 95% of
HTTP requests should return a 200 OK status
.; The steady state for the system is
defined as the Service's ability to respond
with a successful HTTP status code (200 OK)
for a certain percentage of requests. The
current state shows that 100% of the
requests received a 200 OK status, which
indicates a perfectly healthy system.
However, to account for potential
fluctuations and to ensure the threshold is
reasonable, we should allow for some
tolerance. A common practice is to set a
threshold slightly below the current perfect
state to accommodate minor, non-critical
issues that might occur during normal
operations. Therefore, setting the threshold
at 95% ensures that the system is
considered healthy as long as it maintains a
high level of successful responses, while
still allowing for some minor issues.
- Whether the steady state meets the
threshold is determined by the following K6
Javascript:
```
import http from 'k6/http';\nimport { check
} from 'k6';
export const options = {
vus: 5,
duration: '5s',
thresholds: {
'http_req_failed': ['rate<0.05'],
},
};
export default function () {
const res = http.get('http:\/\/example-
service.default.svc.cluster.local:80');
42
===== PAGE 43 =====
check(res, {
'is status 200': (r) => r.status ===
200,
});
}
```
Prompt 13: Agent # 1-6 for determining
detailed failure parameters
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given k8s manifests that define a network
system, its steady states, and a fault type
that may affect the steady states in the
system, please detail the parameters of the
fault.
Always keep the following rules:
- Pay attention to namespace specification.
If the namespace is specified in the
manifest, it is deployed with the namespace.
If not, it is deployed with the 'default'
namespace.
- The parameters follow the format of Chaos
Mesh.
Human:
Here is the overview of my system:
{user_input2}
Steady states of my system:
{steady_states}
A fault scenario that may occur in my system
and may affect the steady states:
{fault_scenario}
Please follow the instructions below
regarding Chaos Engineering as necessary:
{ce_instructions}
Now, please detail the parameters of the
fault "{refined_fault_type}".
{detailed_param_instructions}
In the verification loop, the prompts below will be
stacked as history
AI:
{output}
Human:
Your current fault parameters cause errors
when conducted.
The error message is as follows:
{error_message}
Please analyze the reason why the errors
occur, then fix the errors.
Always keep the following rules:
- NEVER repeat the same fixes that have been
made in the past.
- Fix only the parts related to the errors
without changing the original intent.
Example 15: fault_scenario
An assumed fault scenario is as follows:
- Event: Cyber Attack Simulation
- Used Chaos Engineering tool: Chaos Mesh
- Faults to simulate the event: [[{'name': '
PodChaos', 'name_id': 0, 'scope': {'pod': '
example-pod'}}], [{'name': 'NetworkChaos', '
name_id': 0, 'scope': {'service': 'example-
service'}}]]
- Description: Given the system's weaknesses
, a cyber attack targeting the web server
could be highly impactful. The Pod's restart
policy set to 'Never' and the single Pod
deployment without redundancy are critical
vulnerabilities. If the Pod fails, it will
not restart, leading to downtime, and the
lack of redundancy means there is no backup
to handle traffic. To simulate a cyber
attack, we can inject faults that exploit
these weaknesses. First, we will use
PodChaos to simulate a Pod failure, which
will test the system's ability to maintain
the 'example-pod-running-state'. Since the
Pod will not restart automatically, this
will directly impact the steady state. Next,
we will use NetworkChaos to simulate
network latency, which will test the system'
s ability to maintain the 'example-service-
http-response-state'. This sequence
simulates a cyber attack where the Pod is
targeted first, followed by network
disruptions, revealing the system's
vulnerabilities in handling such events.
Example 16: refined_fault_type
NetworkChaos({'service': 'example-service'})
Dynamic instruction 1:
detailed_param_instructions
for PodChaos
The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {"properties":
{"foo": {"title": "Foo", "description": "a
list of strings", "type": "array", "items":
{"type": "string"}}}, "required": ["foo"]}
the object {"foo": ["bar", "baz"]} is a well
-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {"properties": {"foo": ["bar", "baz
"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"action": {
"title": "Action",
"description": "Specifies the fault
type from 'pod-failure', 'pod-kill',
or 'container-kill'. Note that you may
select 'pod-failure' only when the
target Pod's container has
livenessProbe and readinessProbe
defined.",
"example": "pod-kill",
"enum": [
"pod-failure",
"pod-kill",
"container-kill"
],
"type": "string"
},
"mode": {
"title": "Mode",
"description": "Specifies the mode of
the experiment. The mode options
include 'one' (selecting a random Pod)
, 'all' (selecting all eligible Pods),
'fixed' (selecting a specified number
of eligible Pods), 'fixed-percent' (
43
===== PAGE 44 =====
selecting a specified percentage of
Pods from the eligible Pods), and '
random-max-percent' (selecting the
maximum percentage of Pods from the
eligible Pods)",
"example": "one",
"enum": [
"one",
"all",
"fixed",
"fixed-percent",
"random-max-percent"
],
"type": "string"
},
"value": {
"title": "Value",
"description": "Provides parameters
for the mode configuration, depending
on mode.For example, when mode is set
to fixed-percent, value specifies the
percentage of Pods.",
"example": "1",
"type": "string"
},
"selector": {
"title": "Selector",
"description": "Specifies the target
Pod.",
"example": null,
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Selectors"
}
]
},
"containerNames": {
"title": "Containernames",
"description": "When you configure
action to container-kill, this
configuration is mandatory to specify
the target container name for
injecting faults.",
"example": [
"prometheus"
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"required": [
"action",
"mode",
"selector"
],
"definitions": {
"SetBasedRequirements": {
"title": "SetBasedRequirements",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"key": {
"title": "Key",
"description": "Label key",
"type": "string"
},
"operator": {
"title": "Operator",
"description": "Select an operator
.",
"enum": [
"In",
"NotIn",
"Exists",
"DoesNotExist"
],
"type": "string"
},
"values": {
"title": "Values",
"description": "Label values. The
values set must be non-empty in
the case of In and NotIn.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"required": [
"key",
"operator",
"values"
]
},
"Selectors": {
"title": "Selectors",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"namespaces": {
"title": "Namespaces",
"description": "Specifies the
namespace of the experiment's
target Pod. If this selector is
None, Chaos Mesh will set it to
the namespace of the current Chaos
experiment.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"labelSelectors": {
"title": "Labelselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
label-key/value pairs that the
experiment's target Pod must have.
If multiple labels are specified,
the experiment target must have
all the labels specified by this
selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"expressionSelectors": {
"title": "Expressionselectors",
"description": "Specifies a set of
expressions that define the label
's rules to specifiy the
experiment's target Pod.",
"example": [
{
"key": "tier",
"operator": "In",
"values": [
"cache"
]
},
{
"key": "environment",
"operator": "NotIn",
"values": [
"dev"
]
}
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"$ref": "#/definitions/
SetBasedRequirements"
}
},
"annotationSelectors": {
"title": "Annotationselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
annotation-key/value pairs that
the experiment's target Pod must
have. If multiple annotations are
specified, the experiment target
must have all annotations
specified by this selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"fieldSelectors": {
44
===== PAGE 45 =====
"title": "Fieldselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
field-key/value pairs of the
experiment's target Pod. If
multiple fields are specified, the
experiment target must have all
fields set by this selector.",
"example": {
"metadata.name": "my-pod",
"metadata.namespace": "dafault"
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"podPhaseSelectors": {
"title": "Podphaseselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
phase of the experiment's target
Pod. If this selector is None, the
target Pod's phase is not limited
.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"enum": [
"Pending",
"Running",
"Succeeded",
"Failed",
"Unknown"
],
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodeSelectors": {
"title": "Nodeselectors",
"description": "Specifies the node
-label-key/value pairs to which
the experiment's target Pod
belongs.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodes": {
"title": "Nodes",
"description": "Specifies the node
to which the experiment's target
Pod belongs. The target Pod can
only belong to one node in the
configured node list. If multiple
node labels are specified, the
node to which the experiment's
target Pod belongs must have all
labels specified by this selector
.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"pods": {
"title": "Pods",
"description": "Specifies the
namespaces and list of the
experiment's target Pods. If you
have specified this selector,
Chaos Mesh ignores other
configured selectors.",
"example": {
"default": [
"pod-0",
"pod-2"
]
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
}
}
}
}
}
```
Dynamic instruction 2:
detailed_param_instructions
for NetworkChaos
he output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {"properties":
{"foo": {"title": "Foo", "description": "a
list of strings", "type": "array", "items":
{"type": "string"}}}, "required": ["foo"]}
the object {"foo": ["bar", "baz"]} is a well
-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {"properties": {"foo": ["bar", "baz
"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"action": {
"title": "Action",
"description": "Indicates the specific
fault type. Available types include:
netem, delay (network delay), loss (
packet loss), duplicate (packet
duplicating), corrupt (packet corrupt)
, partition (network partition), and
bandwidth (network bandwidth limit).
After you specify action field,
specify action-related fields for
other necessary field configuration.",
"example": "Partition",
"enum": [
"netem",
"delay",
"loss",
"duplicate",
"corrupt",
"partition",
"bandwidth"
],
"type": "string"
},
"direction": {
"title": "Direction",
"description": "Indicates the
direction of target packets. Available
vaules include from (the packets from
target), to (the packets to target),
and both (the packets from or to
target). This parameter makes Chaos
only take effect for a specific
direction of packets.",
"default": "to",
"example": "both",
"enum": [
"from",
"to",
"both"
],
"type": "string"
},
"target": {
"title": "Target",
"description": "Used in combination
with direction, making Chaos only
effective for some packets. 'from' and
'both' direction cannot be used when
targets is empty in netem action.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Selector"
}
45
===== PAGE 46 =====
]
},
"mode": {
"title": "Mode",
"description": "Specifies the mode of
the experiment. The mode options
include one (selecting a random Pod),
all (selecting all eligible Pods),
fixed (selecting a specified number of
eligible Pods), fixed-percent (
selecting a specified percentage of
Pods from the eligible Pods), and
random-max-percent (selecting the
maximum percentage of Pods from the
eligible Pods)",
"example": "one",
"enum": [
"one",
"all",
"fixed",
"fixed-percent",
"random-max-percent"
],
"type": "string"
},
"value": {
"title": "Value",
"description": "Provides parameters
for the mode configuration, depending
on mode. For example, when mode is set
to fixed-percent, value specifies the
percentage of Pods.",
"example": "1",
"type": "string"
},
"selector": {
"title": "Selector",
"description": "Specifies the target
Pod.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Selectors"
}
]
},
"externalTargets": {
"title": "Externaltargets",
"description": "Indicates the network
targets except for Kubernetes, which
can be IPv4 addresses or domains. This
parameter only works with direction:
to.",
"example": [
"1.1.1.1",
"www.google.com"
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"device": {
"title": "Device",
"description": "Specifies the affected
network interface",
"example": "eth0",
"type": "string"
},
"delay": {
"title": "Delay",
"description": "When setting action to
delay means simulating network delay
fault, you also need to configure this
parameters.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Deplay"
}
]
},
"loss": {
"title": "Loss",
"description": "When setting action to
loss means simulating packet loss
fault, you can also configure this
parameters.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Loss"
}
]
},
"duplicated": {
"title": "Duplicated",
"description": "When setting action to
duplicate, meaning simulating package
duplication, you can also set this
parameters.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Duplicate"
}
]
},
"corrupt": {
"title": "Corrupt",
"description": "When setting action to
corrupt means simulating package
corruption fault, you can also
configure the following parameters.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Corrupt"
}
]
},
"rate": {
"title": "Rate",
"description": "When setting action to
rate means simulating bandwidth rate
fault, you also need to configure this
parameters. This action is similar to
bandwidth/rate below, however, the
key distinction is that this action
can combine with other netem actions
listed above. However, if you require
more control over the bandwidth
simulation such as limiting the buffer
size, select the bandwidth action.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Rate"
}
]
},
"bandwidth": {
"title": "Bandwidth",
"description": "When setting 'action'
to 'bandwidth' means simulating
bandwidth limit fault, you also need
to configure this parameters. This
action is mutually exclusive with any
netem action defined above. If you
need to inject bandwidth rate along
with other network failures such as
corruption, use the rate action
instead.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Bandwidth"
}
]
}
},
"required": [
"action",
"mode",
"selector"
],
"definitions": {
"SetBasedRequirements": {
"title": "SetBasedRequirements",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"key": {
"title": "Key",
"description": "Label key",
"type": "string"
},
"operator": {
46
===== PAGE 47 =====
"title": "Operator",
"description": "Select an operator
.",
"enum": [
"In",
"NotIn",
"Exists",
"DoesNotExist"
],
"type": "string"
},
"values": {
"title": "Values",
"description": "Label values. The
values set must be non-empty in
the case of In and NotIn.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"required": [
"key",
"operator",
"values"
]
},
"Selectors": {
"title": "Selectors",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"namespaces": {
"title": "Namespaces",
"description": "Specifies the
namespace of the experiment's
target Pod. If this selector is
None, Chaos Mesh will set it to
the namespace of the current Chaos
experiment.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"labelSelectors": {
"title": "Labelselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
label-key/value pairs that the
experiment's target Pod must have.
If multiple labels are specified,
the experiment target must have
all the labels specified by this
selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"expressionSelectors": {
"title": "Expressionselectors",
"description": "Specifies a set of
expressions that define the label
's rules to specifiy the
experiment's target Pod.",
"example": [
{
"key": "tier",
"operator": "In",
"values": [
"cache"
]
},
{
"key": "environment",
"operator": "NotIn",
"values": [
"dev"
]
}
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"$ref": "#/definitions/
SetBasedRequirements"
}
},
"annotationSelectors": {
"title": "Annotationselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
annotation-key/value pairs that
the experiment's target Pod must
have. If multiple annotations are
specified, the experiment target
must have all annotations
specified by this selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"fieldSelectors": {
"title": "Fieldselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
field-key/value pairs of the
experiment's target Pod. If
multiple fields are specified, the
experiment target must have all
fields set by this selector.",
"example": {
"metadata.name": "my-pod",
"metadata.namespace": "dafault"
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"podPhaseSelectors": {
"title": "Podphaseselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
phase of the experiment's target
Pod. If this selector is None, the
target Pod's phase is not limited
.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"enum": [
"Pending",
"Running",
"Succeeded",
"Failed",
"Unknown"
],
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodeSelectors": {
"title": "Nodeselectors",
"description": "Specifies the node
-label-key/value pairs to which
the experiment's target Pod
belongs.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodes": {
"title": "Nodes",
"description": "Specifies the node
to which the experiment's target
Pod belongs. The target Pod can
only belong to one node in the
configured node list. If multiple
node labels are specified, the
node to which the experiment's
target Pod belongs must have all
labels specified by this selector
.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"pods": {
"title": "Pods",
"description": "Specifies the
namespaces and list of the
experiment's target Pods. If you
47
===== PAGE 48 =====
have specified this selector,
Chaos Mesh ignores other
configured selectors.",
"example": {
"default": [
"pod-0",
"pod-2"
]
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
}
}
},
"Selector": {
"title": "Selector",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"mode": {
"title": "Mode",
"description": "Specifies the mode
of the experiment. The mode
options include one (selecting a
random Pod), all (selecting all
eligible Pods), fixed (selecting a
specified number of eligible Pods
), fixed-percent (selecting a
specified percentage of Pods from
the eligible Pods), and random-max
-percent (selecting the maximum
percentage of Pods from the
eligible Pods)",
"example": "one",
"enum": [
"one",
"all",
"fixed",
"fixed-percent",
"random-max-percent"
],
"type": "string"
},
"selector": {
"title": "Selector",
"description": "Specifies the
target Pod.",
"example": null,
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/
Selectors"
}
]
}
},
"required": [
"mode",
"selector"
]
},
"Reorder": {
"title": "Reorder",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"reorder": {
"title": "Reorder",
"description": "Indicates the
probability to reorder",
"default": "0",
"example": "0.5",
"type": "string"
},
"correlation": {
"title": "Correlation",
"description": "Indicates the
correlation between this time's
length of delay time and the
previous time's length of delay
time. Range of value: [0, 100]",
"default": "0",
"example": "50",
"type": "string"
},
"gap": {
"title": "Gap",
"description": "Indicates the gap
before and after packet reordering
",
"default": 0,
"example": 5,
"type": "integer"
}
}
},
"Deplay": {
"title": "Deplay",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"latency": {
"title": "Latency",
"description": "Indicates the
network latency",
"example": "2ms",
"type": "string"
},
"correlation": {
"title": "Correlation",
"description": "Indicates the
correlation between the current
latency and the previous one.
Range of value: [0, 100]. Specify
only the number. NEVER include any
units.",
"example": "50",
"type": "string"
},
"jitter": {
"title": "Jitter",
"description": "Indicates the
range of the network latency",
"example": "1ms",
"type": "string"
},
"reorder": {
"title": "Reorder",
"description": "Indicates the
status of network packet
reordering",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Reorder
"
}
]
}
}
},
"Loss": {
"title": "Loss",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"loss": {
"title": "Loss",
"description": "Indicates the
probability of packet loss. Range
of value: [0, 100]. Specify only
the number. NEVER include any
units.",
"default": "0",
"example": "50",
"type": "string"
},
"correlation": {
"title": "Correlation",
"description": "Indicates the
correlation between the
probability of current packet loss
and the previous time's packet
loss. Range of value: [0, 100].
Specify only the number. NEVER
include any units.",
"default": "0",
"example": "50",
"type": "string"
}
48
===== PAGE 49 =====
}
},
"Duplicate": {
"title": "Duplicate",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"duplicate": {
"title": "Duplicate",
"description": "Indicates the
probability of packet duplicating.
Range of value: [0, 100]. Specify
only the number. NEVER include
any units.",
"default": "0",
"example": "50",
"type": "string"
},
"correlation": {
"title": "Correlation",
"description": "Indicates the
correlation between the
probability of current packet
duplicating and the previous time'
s packet duplicating. Range of
value: [0, 100]. Specify only the
number. NEVER include any units.",
"default": "0",
"example": "50",
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"Corrupt": {
"title": "Corrupt",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"corrupt": {
"title": "Corrupt",
"description": "Indicates the
probability of packet corruption.
Range of value: [0, 100]. Specify
only the number. NEVER include any
units.",
"default": "0",
"example": "50",
"type": "string"
},
"correlation": {
"title": "Correlation",
"description": "Indicates the
correlation between the
probability of current packet
corruption and the previous time's
packet corruption. Range of value
: [0, 100]. Specify only the
number. NEVER include any units.",
"default": "0",
"example": "50",
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"Rate": {
"title": "Rate",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"rate": {
"title": "Rate",
"description": "Indicates the rate
of bandwidth limit. Allows bit,
kbit, mbit, gbit, tbit, bps, kbps,
mbps, gbps, tbps unit. bps means
bytes per second",
"example": "1mbps",
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"Bandwidth": {
"title": "Bandwidth",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"rate": {
"title": "Rate",
"description": "Indicates the rate
of bandwidth limit. Allows bit,
kbit, mbit, gbit, tbit, bps, kbps,
mbps, gbps, tbps unit. bps means
bytes per second",
"example": "1mbps",
"type": "string"
},
"limit": {
"title": "Limit",
"description": "Indicates the
number of bytes waiting in queue",
"example": 1,
"type": "integer"
},
"buffer": {
"title": "Buffer",
"description": "Indicates the
maximum number of bytes that can
be sent instantaneously",
"example": 1,
"type": "integer"
},
"peakrate": {
"title": "Peakrate",
"description": "Indicates the
maximum consumption of bucket (
usually not set)",
"example": 1,
"type": "integer"
},
"minburst": {
"title": "Minburst",
"description": "Indicates the size
of peakrate bucket (usually not
set)",
"example": 1,
"type": "integer"
}
}
}
}
}
```
Dynamic instruction 3:
detailed_param_instructions
for DNSChaos
he output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {"properties":
{"foo": {"title": "Foo", "description": "a
list of strings", "type": "array", "items":
{"type": "string"}}}, "required": ["foo"]}
the object {"foo": ["bar", "baz"]} is a well
-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {"properties": {"foo": ["bar", "baz
"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"action": {
"title": "Action",
"description": "Defines the behavior
of DNS fault from 'random' or 'error'.
When the value is random, DNS service
returns a random IP address; when the
value is error, DNS service returns
an error.",
"example": "random",
"enum": [
"random",
"error"
],
"type": "string"
},
"mode": {
49
===== PAGE 50 =====
"title": "Mode",
"description": "Specifies the mode of
the experiment. The mode options
include 'one' (selecting a random Pod)
, 'all' (selecting all eligible Pods),
'fixed' (selecting a specified number
of eligible Pods), 'fixed-percent' (
selecting a specified percentage of
Pods from the eligible Pods), and '
random-max-percent' (selecting the
maximum percentage of Pods from the
eligible Pods)",
"example": "one",
"enum": [
"one",
"all",
"fixed",
"fixed-percent",
"random-max-percent"
],
"type": "string"
},
"value": {
"title": "Value",
"description": "Provides parameters
for the mode configuration, depending
on mode. For example, when mode is set
to fixed-percent, value specifies the
percentage of Pods.",
"example": "1",
"type": "string"
},
"patterns": {
"title": "Patterns",
"description": "Selects a domain
template that matches faults. The
fault is applyed to these domains.
Placeholder ? and wildcard * are
supported, but the wildcard in
patterns configuration must be at the
end of string. For example, chaos-mes
*.org. is an invalid configuration.
When patterns is not configured,
faults are injected for all domains.",
"example": "google.com, chaos-mesh.org
, github.com",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"selector": {
"title": "Selector",
"description": "Specifies the target
Pod.",
"example": null,
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Selectors"
}
]
}
},
"required": [
"selector"
],
"definitions": {
"SetBasedRequirements": {
"title": "SetBasedRequirements",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"key": {
"title": "Key",
"description": "Label key",
"type": "string"
},
"operator": {
"title": "Operator",
"description": "Select an operator
.",
"enum": [
"In",
"NotIn",
"Exists",
"DoesNotExist"
],
"type": "string"
},
"values": {
"title": "Values",
"description": "Label values. The
values set must be non-empty in
the case of In and NotIn.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"required": [
"key",
"operator",
"values"
]
},
"Selectors": {
"title": "Selectors",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"namespaces": {
"title": "Namespaces",
"description": "Specifies the
namespace of the experiment's
target Pod. If this selector is
None, Chaos Mesh will set it to
the namespace of the current Chaos
experiment.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"labelSelectors": {
"title": "Labelselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
label-key/value pairs that the
experiment's target Pod must have.
If multiple labels are specified,
the experiment target must have
all the labels specified by this
selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"expressionSelectors": {
"title": "Expressionselectors",
"description": "Specifies a set of
expressions that define the label
's rules to specifiy the
experiment's target Pod.",
"example": [
{
"key": "tier",
"operator": "In",
"values": [
"cache"
]
},
{
"key": "environment",
"operator": "NotIn",
"values": [
"dev"
]
}
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"$ref": "#/definitions/
SetBasedRequirements"
}
},
"annotationSelectors": {
"title": "Annotationselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
annotation-key/value pairs that
the experiment's target Pod must
have. If multiple annotations are
50
===== PAGE 51 =====
specified, the experiment target
must have all annotations
specified by this selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"fieldSelectors": {
"title": "Fieldselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
field-key/value pairs of the
experiment's target Pod. If
multiple fields are specified, the
experiment target must have all
fields set by this selector.",
"example": {
"metadata.name": "my-pod",
"metadata.namespace": "dafault"
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"podPhaseSelectors": {
"title": "Podphaseselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
phase of the experiment's target
Pod. If this selector is None, the
target Pod's phase is not limited
.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"enum": [
"Pending",
"Running",
"Succeeded",
"Failed",
"Unknown"
],
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodeSelectors": {
"title": "Nodeselectors",
"description": "Specifies the node
-label-key/value pairs to which
the experiment's target Pod
belongs.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodes": {
"title": "Nodes",
"description": "Specifies the node
to which the experiment's target
Pod belongs. The target Pod can
only belong to one node in the
configured node list. If multiple
node labels are specified, the
node to which the experiment's
target Pod belongs must have all
labels specified by this selector
.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"pods": {
"title": "Pods",
"description": "Specifies the
namespaces and list of the
experiment's target Pods. If you
have specified this selector,
Chaos Mesh ignores other
configured selectors.",
"example": {
"default": [
"pod-0",
"pod-2"
]
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
}
}
}
}
}
```
Dynamic instruction 4:
detailed_param_instructions
for HTTPChaos
he output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {"properties":
{"foo": {"title": "Foo", "description": "a
list of strings", "type": "array", "items":
{"type": "string"}}}, "required": ["foo"]}
the object {"foo": ["bar", "baz"]} is a well
-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {"properties": {"foo": ["bar", "baz
"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"mode": {
"title": "Mode",
"description": "Specifies the mode of
the experiment. The mode options
include one (selecting a random Pod),
all (selecting all eligible Pods),
fixed (selecting a specified number of
eligible Pods), fixed-percent (
selecting a specified percentage of
Pods from the eligible Pods), and
random-max-percent (selecting the
maximum percentage of Pods from the
eligible Pods)",
"example": "one",
"enum": [
"one",
"all",
"fixed",
"fixed-percent",
"random-max-percent"
],
"type": "string"
},
"value": {
"title": "Value",
"description": "Provides parameters
for the mode configuration, depending
on mode. For example, when mode is set
to fixed-percent, value specifies the
percentage of Pods.",
"example": "1",
"type": "string"
},
"target": {
"title": "Target",
"description": "Specifies whether the
target of fault injection is Request
or Response. The target-related fields
(replace.path, replace.method,
replace.queries, patch.queries) should
be configured at the same time.",
"example": "Request",
"enum": [
"Request",
"Response"
51
===== PAGE 52 =====
],
"type": "string"
},
"port": {
"title": "Port",
"description": "The TCP port that the
target service listens on.",
"example": 80,
"type": "integer"
},
"code": {
"title": "Code",
"description": "Specifies the status
code responded by target. If not
specified, the fault takes effect for
all status codes by default. This
configuration is effective only when
the 'target' is set to 'Response'",
"example": 200,
"type": "integer"
},
"path": {
"title": "Path",
"description": "Specify the URI path
of the target request. Supports
Matching wildcards. If not specified,
the fault takes effect on all paths by
default.",
"example": "/api/*",
"type": "string"
},
"method": {
"title": "Method",
"description": "Specify the HTTP
method of the target request method.
If not specified, the fault takes
effect for all methods by default.",
"example": "GET",
"type": "string"
},
"request_headers": {
"title": "Request Headers",
"description": "Matches request
headers to target.",
"example": {
"Content-Type": "application/json"
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"abort": {
"title": "Abort",
"description": "Abort fault. Indicates
whether to inject the fault that
interrupts the connection.",
"default": false,
"example": true,
"type": "boolean"
},
"delay": {
"title": "Delay",
"description": "Deplay fault.
Specifies the time for a latency fault
.",
"default": "0",
"example": "10s",
"type": "string"
},
"replace": {
"title": "Replace",
"description": "Replace fault.
Specifies replaced contents.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Replace"
}
]
},
"patch": {
"title": "Patch",
"description": "Patch fault. Specifies
patch contents.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Patch"
}
]
}
},
"required": [
"mode",
"target",
"port"
],
"definitions": {
"Replace": {
"title": "Replace",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"headers": {
"title": "Headers",
"description": "Specifies the key
pair used to replace the request
headers or response headers.",
"example": {
"Content-Type": "application/xml
"
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"body": {
"title": "Body",
"description": "Specifies request
body or response body to replace
the fault (Base64 encoded).",
"example": "eyJmb28iOiAiYmFyIn0K",
"type": "string"
},
"path": {
"title": "Path",
"description": "Specifies the URI
path used to replace content.",
"example": "/api/v2",
"type": "string"
},
"method": {
"title": "Method",
"description": "Specifies the
replaced content of the HTTP
request method.",
"example": "DELETE",
"type": "string"
},
"queries": {
"title": "Queries",
"description": "Specifies the
replaced key pair of the URI query
.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"code": {
"title": "Code",
"description": "Specifies the
replaced content of the response
status code. This configuration is
effective only when the 'target'
is set to 'Response'.",
"example": 404,
"type": "integer"
}
}
},
"PatchBody": {
"title": "PatchBody",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"type": {
"title": "Type",
"description": "Specifies the type
52
===== PAGE 53 =====
of patch faults of the request
body or response body. Currently,
it only supports JSON.",
"example": "JSON",
"type": "string"
},
"value": {
"title": "Value",
"description": "Specifies the
fault of the request body or
response body with patch faults.",
"example": "{'foo': 'bar'}",
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"Patch": {
"title": "Patch",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"headers": {
"title": "Headers",
"description": "Specifies the
attached key pair of the request
headers or response headers with
patch faults.",
"example": [
[
"Set-Cookie",
"one cookie"
]
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"body": {
"title": "Body",
"description": "Patch body.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/
PatchBody"
}
]
},
"queries": {
"title": "Queries",
"description": "Specifies the
attached key pair of the URI query
with patch faults.",
"example": [
[
"foo",
"bar"
]
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
}
}
}
}
}
```
Dynamic instruction 5:
detailed_param_instructions
for StressChaos
he output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {"properties":
{"foo": {"title": "Foo", "description": "a
list of strings", "type": "array", "items":
{"type": "string"}}}, "required": ["foo"]}
the object {"foo": ["bar", "baz"]} is a well
-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {"properties": {"foo": ["bar", "baz
"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"mode": {
"title": "Mode",
"description": "Specifies the mode of
the experiment. The mode options
include 'one' (selecting a random Pod)
, 'all' (selecting all eligible Pods),
'fixed' (selecting a specified number
of eligible Pods), 'fixed-percent' (
selecting a specified percentage of
Pods from the eligible Pods), and '
random-max-percent' (selecting the
maximum percentage of Pods from the
eligible Pods)",
"example": "one",
"enum": [
"one",
"all",
"fixed",
"fixed-percent",
"random-max-percent"
],
"type": "string"
},
"value": {
"title": "Value",
"description": "Provides parameters
for the mode configuration, depending
on mode.For example, when mode is set
to fixed-percent, value specifies the
percentage of Pods.",
"example": "1",
"type": "string"
},
"stressors": {
"title": "Stressors",
"description": "Specifies the stress
of CPU or memory",
"dafault": null,
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Stressors"
}
]
},
"stressngStressors": {
"title": "Stressngstressors",
"description": "Specifies the stres-ng
parameter to reach richer stress
injection",
"example": "--clone 2",
"type": "string"
},
"containerNames": {
"title": "Containernames",
"description": "Specifies the name of
the container into which the fault is
injected.",
"example": [
"nginx"
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
53
===== PAGE 54 =====
}
},
"selector": {
"title": "Selector",
"description": "Specifies the target
Pod.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Selectors"
}
]
}
},
"required": [
"mode",
"selector"
],
"definitions": {
"MemoryStressor": {
"title": "MemoryStressor",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"workers": {
"title": "Workers",
"description": "Specifies the
number of threads that apply
memory stress",
"example": 1,
"type": "integer"
},
"size": {
"title": "Size",
"description": "Specifies the
memory size to be occupied or a
percentage of the total memory
size. The final sum of the
occupied memory size is size.",
"example": "256MB",
"type": "string"
},
"oomScoreAdj": {
"title": "Oomscoreadj",
"description": "Specifies the
oom_score_adj of the stress
process.",
"example": -1000,
"type": "integer"
}
}
},
"CPUStressor": {
"title": "CPUStressor",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"workers": {
"title": "Workers",
"description": "Specifies the
number of threads that apply CPU
stress",
"example": 1,
"type": "integer"
},
"load": {
"title": "Load",
"description": "Specifies the
percentage of CPU occupied. 0
means that no additional CPU is
added, and 100 refers to full load
. The final sum of CPU load is
workers * load.",
"example": 50,
"type": "integer"
}
}
},
"Stressors": {
"title": "Stressors",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"memory": {
"title": "Memory",
"description": "Specifies the
memory stress",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/
MemoryStressor"
}
]
},
"cpu": {
"title": "Cpu",
"description": "Specifies the CPU
stress",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/
CPUStressor"
}
]
}
}
},
"SetBasedRequirements": {
"title": "SetBasedRequirements",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"key": {
"title": "Key",
"description": "Label key",
"type": "string"
},
"operator": {
"title": "Operator",
"description": "Select an operator
.",
"enum": [
"In",
"NotIn",
"Exists",
"DoesNotExist"
],
"type": "string"
},
"values": {
"title": "Values",
"description": "Label values. The
values set must be non-empty in
the case of In and NotIn.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"required": [
"key",
"operator",
"values"
]
},
"Selectors": {
"title": "Selectors",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"namespaces": {
"title": "Namespaces",
"description": "Specifies the
namespace of the experiment's
target Pod. If this selector is
None, Chaos Mesh will set it to
the namespace of the current Chaos
experiment.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"labelSelectors": {
"title": "Labelselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
label-key/value pairs that the
experiment's target Pod must have.
If multiple labels are specified,
the experiment target must have
all the labels specified by this
selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
54
===== PAGE 55 =====
}
},
"expressionSelectors": {
"title": "Expressionselectors",
"description": "Specifies a set of
expressions that define the label
's rules to specifiy the
experiment's target Pod.",
"example": [
{
"key": "tier",
"operator": "In",
"values": [
"cache"
]
},
{
"key": "environment",
"operator": "NotIn",
"values": [
"dev"
]
}
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"$ref": "#/definitions/
SetBasedRequirements"
}
},
"annotationSelectors": {
"title": "Annotationselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
annotation-key/value pairs that
the experiment's target Pod must
have. If multiple annotations are
specified, the experiment target
must have all annotations
specified by this selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"fieldSelectors": {
"title": "Fieldselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
field-key/value pairs of the
experiment's target Pod. If
multiple fields are specified, the
experiment target must have all
fields set by this selector.",
"example": {
"metadata.name": "my-pod",
"metadata.namespace": "dafault"
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"podPhaseSelectors": {
"title": "Podphaseselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
phase of the experiment's target
Pod. If this selector is None, the
target Pod's phase is not limited
.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"enum": [
"Pending",
"Running",
"Succeeded",
"Failed",
"Unknown"
],
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodeSelectors": {
"title": "Nodeselectors",
"description": "Specifies the node
-label-key/value pairs to which
the experiment's target Pod
belongs.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodes": {
"title": "Nodes",
"description": "Specifies the node
to which the experiment's target
Pod belongs. The target Pod can
only belong to one node in the
configured node list. If multiple
node labels are specified, the
node to which the experiment's
target Pod belongs must have all
labels specified by this selector
.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"pods": {
"title": "Pods",
"description": "Specifies the
namespaces and list of the
experiment's target Pods. If you
have specified this selector,
Chaos Mesh ignores other
configured selectors.",
"example": {
"default": [
"pod-0",
"pod-2"
]
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
}
}
}
}
}
```
Dynamic instruction 6:
detailed_param_instructions
for IOChaos
he output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {"properties":
{"foo": {"title": "Foo", "description": "a
list of strings", "type": "array", "items":
{"type": "string"}}}, "required": ["foo"]}
the object {"foo": ["bar", "baz"]} is a well
-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {"properties": {"foo": ["bar", "baz
"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"action": {
"title": "Action",
"description": "Indicates the specific
type of faults. Only latency, fault,
attrOverride, and mistake are
supported.",
"example": "latency",
"enum": [
"latency",
55
===== PAGE 56 =====
"fault",
"attrOverride",
"mistake"
],
"type": "string"
},
"mode": {
"title": "Mode",
"description": "Specifies the mode of
the experiment. The mode options
include one (selecting a random Pod),
all (selecting all eligible Pods),
fixed (selecting a specified number of
eligible Pods), fixed-percent (
selecting a specified percentage of
Pods from the eligible Pods), and
random-max-percent (selecting the
maximum percentage of Pods from the
eligible Pods)",
"example": "one",
"enum": [
"one",
"all",
"fixed",
"fixed-percent",
"random-max-percent"
],
"type": "string"
},
"selector": {
"title": "Selector",
"description": "Specifies the target
Pod.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Selectors"
}
]
},
"value": {
"title": "Value",
"description": "Provides parameters
for the mode configuration, depending
on mode. For example, when mode is set
to fixed-percent, value specifies the
percentage of Pods.",
"example": "1",
"type": "string"
},
"volumePath": {
"title": "Volumepath",
"description": "The mount point of
volume in the target container. Must
be the root directory of the mount.",
"example": "/var/run/etcd",
"type": "string"
},
"path": {
"title": "Path",
"description": "The valid range of
fault injections, either a wildcard or
a single file. If not specified, the
fault is valid for all files by
default",
"example": "/var/run/etcd/*/",
"type": "string"
},
"methods": {
"title": "Methods",
"description": "Type of the file
system call that requires injecting
fault. Supported method types: ['
lookup', 'forget', 'getattr', 'setattr
', 'readlink', 'mknod', 'mkdir', '
unlink', 'rmdir', 'symlink', 'rename',
'link', 'open', 'read', 'write', '
flush', 'release', 'fsync', 'opendir',
'readdir', 'releasedir', 'fsyncdir',
'statfs', 'setxattr', 'getxattr', '
listxattr', 'removexattr', 'access', '
create', 'getlk', 'setlk', 'bmap'].
All Types by default.",
"example": [
"READ"
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"percent": {
"title": "Percent",
"description": "Probability of failure
per operation, in %.",
"default": 100,
"example": 100,
"type": "integer"
},
"containerNames": {
"title": "Containernames",
"description": "Specifies the name of
the container into which the fault is
injected.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"deplay": {
"title": "Deplay",
"description": "Specify when the '
action' is set to 'latency'. Specific
delay time.",
"type": "string"
},
"errno": {
"title": "Errno",
"description": "Specify when the '
action' is set to 'fault'. Returned
error number: 1: Operation not
permitted, 2: No such file or
directory, 5: I/O error, 6: No such
device or address, 12: Out of memory,
16: Device or resource busy, 17: File
exists, 20: Not a directory, 22:
Invalid argument, 24: Too many open
files, 28: No space left on device",
"type": "integer"
},
"attr": {
"title": "Attr",
"description": "Specify when the '
action' is set to 'attrOverride'.
Specific property override rules.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/
AttrOverrideSpec"
}
]
},
"mistake": {
"title": "Mistake",
"description": "Specify when the '
action' is set to 'mistake'. Specific
error rules.",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/MistakeSpec
"
}
]
}
},
"required": [
"action",
"mode",
"volumePath",
"attr",
"mistake"
],
"definitions": {
"SetBasedRequirements": {
"title": "SetBasedRequirements",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"key": {
"title": "Key",
"description": "Label key",
"type": "string"
56
===== PAGE 57 =====
},
"operator": {
"title": "Operator",
"description": "Select an operator
.",
"enum": [
"In",
"NotIn",
"Exists",
"DoesNotExist"
],
"type": "string"
},
"values": {
"title": "Values",
"description": "Label values. The
values set must be non-empty in
the case of In and NotIn.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"required": [
"key",
"operator",
"values"
]
},
"Selectors": {
"title": "Selectors",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"namespaces": {
"title": "Namespaces",
"description": "Specifies the
namespace of the experiment's
target Pod. If this selector is
None, Chaos Mesh will set it to
the namespace of the current Chaos
experiment.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"labelSelectors": {
"title": "Labelselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
label-key/value pairs that the
experiment's target Pod must have.
If multiple labels are specified,
the experiment target must have
all the labels specified by this
selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"expressionSelectors": {
"title": "Expressionselectors",
"description": "Specifies a set of
expressions that define the label
's rules to specifiy the
experiment's target Pod.",
"example": [
{
"key": "tier",
"operator": "In",
"values": [
"cache"
]
},
{
"key": "environment",
"operator": "NotIn",
"values": [
"dev"
]
}
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"$ref": "#/definitions/
SetBasedRequirements"
}
},
"annotationSelectors": {
"title": "Annotationselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
annotation-key/value pairs that
the experiment's target Pod must
have. If multiple annotations are
specified, the experiment target
must have all annotations
specified by this selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"fieldSelectors": {
"title": "Fieldselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
field-key/value pairs of the
experiment's target Pod. If
multiple fields are specified, the
experiment target must have all
fields set by this selector.",
"example": {
"metadata.name": "my-pod",
"metadata.namespace": "dafault"
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"podPhaseSelectors": {
"title": "Podphaseselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
phase of the experiment's target
Pod. If this selector is None, the
target Pod's phase is not limited
.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"enum": [
"Pending",
"Running",
"Succeeded",
"Failed",
"Unknown"
],
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodeSelectors": {
"title": "Nodeselectors",
"description": "Specifies the node
-label-key/value pairs to which
the experiment's target Pod
belongs.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodes": {
"title": "Nodes",
"description": "Specifies the node
to which the experiment's target
Pod belongs. The target Pod can
only belong to one node in the
configured node list. If multiple
node labels are specified, the
node to which the experiment's
target Pod belongs must have all
labels specified by this selector
.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"pods": {
"title": "Pods",
"description": "Specifies the
57
===== PAGE 58 =====
namespaces and list of the
experiment's target Pods. If you
have specified this selector,
Chaos Mesh ignores other
configured selectors.",
"example": {
"default": [
"pod-0",
"pod-2"
]
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
}
}
},
"TimeSpec": {
"title": "TimeSpec",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"sec": {
"title": "Sec",
"description": "Timestamp in
seconds. Specify either sec or
nsec.",
"type": "integer"
},
"nsec": {
"title": "Nsec",
"description": "Timestamp in
nanoseconds. Specify either sec or
nsec.",
"type": "integer"
}
}
},
"AttrOverrideSpec": {
"title": "AttrOverrideSpec",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"ino": {
"title": "Ino",
"description": "ino number",
"type": "integer"
},
"size": {
"title": "Size",
"description": "File size",
"type": "integer"
},
"blocks": {
"title": "Blocks",
"description": "Number of blocks
that the file uses",
"type": "integer"
},
"atime": {
"title": "Atime",
"description": "Last access time",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/
TimeSpec"
}
]
},
"mtime": {
"title": "Mtime",
"description": "Last modified time
",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/
TimeSpec"
}
]
},
"ctime": {
"title": "Ctime",
"description": "Last status change
time",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/
TimeSpec"
}
]
},
"kind": {
"title": "Kind",
"description": "File type, see
fuser::FileType",
"type": "string"
},
"perm": {
"title": "Perm",
"description": "File permissions
in decimal",
"type": "integer"
},
"nlink": {
"title": "Nlink",
"description": "Number of hard
links",
"type": "integer"
},
"uid": {
"title": "Uid",
"description": "User ID of the
owner",
"type": "integer"
},
"gid": {
"title": "Gid",
"description": "Group ID of the
owner",
"type": "integer"
},
"rdev": {
"title": "Rdev",
"description": "Device ID",
"type": "integer"
}
}
},
"MistakeSpec": {
"title": "MistakeSpec",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"filling": {
"title": "Filling",
"description": "The wrong data to
be filled. Only zero (fill 0) or
random (fill random bytes) are
supported.",
"type": "string"
},
"maxOccurrences": {
"title": "Maxoccurrences",
"description": "Maximum number of
errors in each operation.",
"example": 1,
"type": "integer"
},
"maxLength": {
"title": "Maxlength",
"description": "Maximum length of
each error (in bytes).",
"example": 1,
"type": "integer"
}
},
"required": [
"filling",
"maxOccurrences",
"maxLength"
]
}
}
}
```
58
===== PAGE 59 =====
Dynamic instruction 7:
detailed_param_instructions
for TimeChaos
The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {"properties":
{"foo": {"title": "Foo", "description": "a
list of strings", "type": "array", "items":
{"type": "string"}}}, "required": ["foo"]}
the object {"foo": ["bar", "baz"]} is a well
-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {"properties": {"foo": ["bar", "baz
"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"timeOffset": {
"title": "Timeoffset",
"description": "Specifies the length
of time offset.",
"example": "-5m",
"type": "string"
},
"clockIds": {
"title": "Clockids",
"description": "Specifies the ID of
clock that will be offset. See the
clock_gettime documentation for
details.",
"default": [
"CLOCK_REALTIME"
],
"example": [
"CLOCK_REALTIME",
"CLOCK_MONOTONIC"
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"mode": {
"title": "Mode",
"description": "Specifies the mode of
the experiment. The mode options
include 'one' (selecting a random Pod)
, 'all' (selecting all eligible Pods),
'fixed' (selecting a specified number
of eligible Pods), 'fixed-percent' (
selecting a specified percentage of
Pods from the eligible Pods), and '
random-max-percent' (selecting the
maximum percentage of Pods from the
eligible Pods)",
"example": "one",
"enum": [
"one",
"all",
"fixed",
"fixed-percent",
"random-max-percent"
],
"type": "string"
},
"value": {
"title": "Value",
"description": "Provides parameters
for the mode configuration, depending
on mode. For example, when mode is set
to fixed-percent, value specifies the
percentage of Pods.",
"example": "1",
"type": "string"
},
"containerNames": {
"title": "Containernames",
"description": "Specifies the name of
the container into which the fault is
injected.",
"example": [
"nginx"
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"selector": {
"title": "Selector",
"description": "Specifies the target
Pod.",
"example": null,
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Selectors"
}
]
}
},
"required": [
"timeOffset",
"mode",
"selector"
],
"definitions": {
"SetBasedRequirements": {
"title": "SetBasedRequirements",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"key": {
"title": "Key",
"description": "Label key",
"type": "string"
},
"operator": {
"title": "Operator",
"description": "Select an operator
.",
"enum": [
"In",
"NotIn",
"Exists",
"DoesNotExist"
],
"type": "string"
},
"values": {
"title": "Values",
"description": "Label values. The
values set must be non-empty in
the case of In and NotIn.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"required": [
"key",
"operator",
"values"
]
},
"Selectors": {
"title": "Selectors",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"namespaces": {
"title": "Namespaces",
"description": "Specifies the
namespace of the experiment's
target Pod. If this selector is
None, Chaos Mesh will set it to
the namespace of the current Chaos
experiment.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"labelSelectors": {
"title": "Labelselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
label-key/value pairs that the
59
===== PAGE 60 =====
experiment's target Pod must have.
If multiple labels are specified,
the experiment target must have
all the labels specified by this
selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"expressionSelectors": {
"title": "Expressionselectors",
"description": "Specifies a set of
expressions that define the label
's rules to specifiy the
experiment's target Pod.",
"example": [
{
"key": "tier",
"operator": "In",
"values": [
"cache"
]
},
{
"key": "environment",
"operator": "NotIn",
"values": [
"dev"
]
}
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"$ref": "#/definitions/
SetBasedRequirements"
}
},
"annotationSelectors": {
"title": "Annotationselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
annotation-key/value pairs that
the experiment's target Pod must
have. If multiple annotations are
specified, the experiment target
must have all annotations
specified by this selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"fieldSelectors": {
"title": "Fieldselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
field-key/value pairs of the
experiment's target Pod. If
multiple fields are specified, the
experiment target must have all
fields set by this selector.",
"example": {
"metadata.name": "my-pod",
"metadata.namespace": "dafault"
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"podPhaseSelectors": {
"title": "Podphaseselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
phase of the experiment's target
Pod. If this selector is None, the
target Pod's phase is not limited
.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"enum": [
"Pending",
"Running",
"Succeeded",
"Failed",
"Unknown"
],
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodeSelectors": {
"title": "Nodeselectors",
"description": "Specifies the node
-label-key/value pairs to which
the experiment's target Pod
belongs.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodes": {
"title": "Nodes",
"description": "Specifies the node
to which the experiment's target
Pod belongs. The target Pod can
only belong to one node in the
configured node list. If multiple
node labels are specified, the
node to which the experiment's
target Pod belongs must have all
labels specified by this selector
.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"pods": {
"title": "Pods",
"description": "Specifies the
namespaces and list of the
experiment's target Pods. If you
have specified this selector,
Chaos Mesh ignores other
configured selectors.",
"example": {
"default": [
"pod-0",
"pod-2"
]
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
}
}
}
}
}
```
D.5.3 Experiment
Prompt 14: Agent # 2-0 for determining
time schedule
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given k8s manifests that define a network
system, its steady states, and faults that
may affect the steady states in the system,
you will design a Chaos Engineering
experiment for them.
First, you will determine the time schedule
for the Chaos Engineering experiment.
Always keep the following rules:
- The experiment is divided into three
phases: pre-validation, fault-injection, and
post-validation phases: pre-validation to
ensure that the system satisfies the steady
states fault injection; fault-injection to
observe the system's behavior during fault
60
===== PAGE 61 =====
injection; post-validation to ensure that
the system has returned to its steady states
after fault injection.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"describe": "Think about the total
time and the reasonable time
allocation for each phase that you are
about to design, and explain your
thought process in detail.",
"type": "string"
},
"total_time": {
"title": "Total Time",
"description": "Total time of the
entire chaos experiment. total_time
should equal to the sum of
pre_validation_time,
fault_injection_time, and
post_validation_time.",
"example": "10m",
"type": "string"
},
"pre_validation_time": {
"title": "Pre Validation Time",
"description": "Total time of
validation before fault injection.",
"example": "2m",
"type": "string"
},
"fault_injection_time": {
"title": "Fault Injection Time",
"description": "Total time of fault
injection.",
"example": "6m",
"type": "string"
},
"post_validation_time": {
"title": "Post Validation Time",
"description": "Total time of
validation after fault injection.",
"example": "2m",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"thought",
"total_time",
"pre_validation_time",
"fault_injection_time",
"post_validation_time"
]
}
```
Human:
# Here is the overview of my system:
{user_input2}
# Steady states of my system:
{steady_states}
# A fault scenario that may occur in my
system and may affect the steady states:
{detailed_fault_scenario}
# Please follow the instructions below
regarding Chaos Engineering as necessary:
{ce_instructions}
Now, please plan a Chaos Engineering
experiment to check the network system's
resiliency that the steady states are
remained during fault injection.
Example 17:
detailed_fault_scenario
An assumed fault scenario is as follows:
- Event: Cyber Attack Simulation\n- Used
Chaos Engineering tool: Chaos Mesh
- Faults to simulate the event: [[Fault(name
='PodChaos', name_id=0, params={'action': '
pod-kill', 'mode': 'one', 'selector': {'
namespaces': ['default'], 'labelSelectors':
{'app': 'example'}}})], [Fault(name='
NetworkChaos', name_id=0, params={'action':
'delay', 'mode': 'all', 'selector': {'
namespaces': ['default'], 'labelSelectors':
{'app': 'example'}}, 'direction': 'to', '
delay': {'latency': '100ms', 'jitter': '10ms
'}})]]
- Description: Given the system's weaknesses
, a cyber attack targeting the web server
could be highly impactful. The Pod's restart
policy set to 'Never' and the single Pod
deployment without redundancy are critical
vulnerabilities. If the Pod fails, it will
not restart, leading to downtime, and the
lack of redundancy means there is no backup
to handle traffic. To simulate a cyber
attack, we can inject faults that exploit
these weaknesses. First, we will use
PodChaos to simulate a Pod failure, which
will test the system's ability to maintain
the 'example-pod-running-state'. Since the
Pod will not restart automatically, this
will directly impact the steady state. Next,
we will use NetworkChaos to simulate
network latency, which will test the system'
s ability to maintain the 'example-service-
http-response-state'. This sequence
simulates a cyber attack where the Pod is
targeted first, followed by network
disruptions, revealing the system's
vulnerabilities in handling such events.
Prompt 15: Agent # 2-1 for scheduling each
experiment phase (pre-validation, failure-
injection, and post-validation phases)
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given k8s manifests that define a network
system, its steady states, and faults that
may affect the steady states in the system,
you will design a Chaos Engineering
experiment for them.
The experiment is divided into three phases:
pre-validation, fault-injection, and post-
validation phases: pre-validation to ensure
that the system satisfies the steady states
fault injection; fault-injection to observe
the system's behavior during fault injection
; post-validation to ensure that the system
has returned to its steady states after
fault injection.
Here, you will detail the {phase_name}.
Always keep the following rules:
- {phase_planning_instructions}
Human:
61
===== PAGE 62 =====
# Here is the overview of my system:
{user_input}
# Steady states of my system:
{steady_states}
# A fault scenario that may occur in my
system and may affect the steady states:
{detailed_fault_scenario}
# Please follow the instructions below
regarding Chaos Engineering as necessary:
{ce_instructions}
Now, please detail the {phase_name}. Note
that the phase's total time is {
phase_total_time}.
Example 18: phase_name
pre-validation phase
Example 19: phase_total_time
10s
Dynamic instruction 8:
phase_planning_instructions
for the pre-validation and post-validation
phases
he output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"description": "Describe in detail the
timeline for when each fault
injection and each unit test (for
verifying steady-state) will be
executed. For example, explain which
fault injections/unit tests will be
executed simultaneously, and whether
certain fault injections/unit tests
will be executed at staggered timings.
Additionally, explain the thought
process that led you to this approach
.",
"type": "string"
},
"unit_tests": {
"title": "Unit Tests",
"description": "The list of unit test
schedule.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"$ref": "#/definitions/UnitTest"
}
}
},
"required": [
"thought",
"unit_tests"
],
"definitions": {
"UnitTest": {
"title": "UnitTest",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"name": {
"title": "Name",
"description": "Steady state name
to be verified by a unit test.",
"type": "string"
},
"grace_period": {
"title": "Grace Period",
"description": "Time elapsed from
the start of the current phase to
the beginning of the unit test.",
"example": "0s",
"type": "string"
},
"duration": {
"title": "Duration",
"description": "Duration of the
unit test. (grace_period +
duration) should not exceed the
current phase's total time.",
"example": "2m",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"name",
"grace_period",
"duration"
]
}
}
}
```
Dynamic instruction 9:
phase_planning_instructions
for the fault-injection phases
he output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"description": "Describe in detail the
timeline for when each fault
injection and each unit test (for
verifying steady-state) will be
executed. For example, explain which
fault injections/unit tests will be
executed simultaneously, and whether
certain fault injections/unit tests
will be executed at staggered timings.
Additionally, explain the thought
62
===== PAGE 63 =====
process that led you to this approach
.",
"type": "string"
},
"fault_injection": {
"title": "Fault Injection",
"description": "The list of fault
injection schedules.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"$ref": "#/definitions/
FaultInjection"
}
},
"unit_tests": {
"title": "Unit Tests",
"description": "The list of unit test
schedule.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"$ref": "#/definitions/UnitTest"
}
}
},
"required": [
"thought",
"fault_injection",
"unit_tests"
],
"definitions": {
"FaultInjection": {
"title": "FaultInjection",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"name": {
"title": "Name",
"description": "Select a fault
type from [\"PodChaos\", \"
NetworkChaos\", \"DNSChaos\", \"
HTTPChaos\", \"StressChaos\", \"
IOChaos\", \"TimeChaos\"]",
"enum": [
"PodChaos",
"NetworkChaos",
"DNSChaos",
"HTTPChaos",
"StressChaos",
"IOChaos",
"TimeChaos"
],
"type": "string"
},
"name_id": {
"title": "Name Id",
"description": "An identifier to
prevent name conflicts when the
same Fault appears. Assign numbers
starting from 0 in sequential
order to prevent name conflicts.",
"type": "integer"
},
"grace_period": {
"title": "Grace Period",
"description": "Time elapsed from
the start of the current phase to
the beginning of the fault
injection.",
"example": "0s",
"type": "string"
},
"duration": {
"title": "Duration",
"description": "Duration of the
unit test. (grace_period +
duration) should not exceed the
current phase's total time.",
"example": "2m",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"name",
"name_id",
"grace_period",
"duration"
]
},
"UnitTest": {
"title": "UnitTest",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"name": {
"title": "Name",
"description": "Steady state name
to be verified by a unit test.",
"type": "string"
},
"grace_period": {
"title": "Grace Period",
"description": "Time elapsed from
the start of the current phase to
the beginning of the unit test.",
"example": "0s",
"type": "string"
},
"duration": {
"title": "Duration",
"description": "Duration of the
unit test. (grace_period +
duration) should not exceed the
current phase's total time.",
"example": "2m",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"name",
"grace_period",
"duration"
]
}
}
}
```
Prompt 16: Agent # 2-2 for summarizing
the planned experiment
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given a Chaos-Engineering-experiment plan,
you will summarize it in detail according to
the following rules:
- In each phase, describe in detail the
timeline for when each fault injection/unit
test (for verifying steady-state) will be
executed. For example, summarize which fault
injections/unit tests will be executed
simultaneously, and whether certain fault
injections/unit tests will be executed at
staggered timings.
- Be sure to specify both each fault
injection/unit test and their corresponding
workflow names.
- When explaining the timeline, provide a
detailed description using specific values
for duration, grace period, etc. Rephrase
the specific values in a way that everyone
can easily understand.
- The meanings of each value are as follows:
- Grace Period: Time elapsed from the
start of the current phase to the
beginning of the fault injection/unit test
.
- Duration: Duration of the fault
injection/unit test. (grace_period +
duration) should not exceed the
corresponding phase's total time.
- Never output bullet points.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
63
===== PAGE 64 =====
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"summary": {
"title": "Summary",
"description": "The summary of the
given Chaos-Engineering-experiment
plan.",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"summary"
]
}
```
Human:
# Here is my Chaos-Engineering-experiment
plan:
## Time Schedule
{time_schedule_overview}
## Pre-validation Phase
{pre_validation_overview}
## Fault-injection Phase
{fault_injection_overview}
## Post-validation phase
{post_validation_overview}
Please summarize the above plan.
Example 20:
time_schedule_overview
Given the constraints of the experiment
needing to be completed within 1 minute, we
need to carefully allocate time to each
phase to ensure that we can effectively
validate the system's steady states before
and after the fault injection, as well as
observe the system's behavior during the
fault injection. The pre-validation phase is
crucial to establish a baseline that the
system is in its expected steady state
before any faults are introduced. The fault
injection phase is where we introduce the
chaos to observe how the system behaves
under stress. Finally, the post-validation
phase is necessary to ensure that the system
returns to its steady state after the
faults are removed. Given the short total
time of 1 minute, a reasonable allocation
could be 10 seconds for pre-validation, 40
seconds for fault injection, and 10 seconds
for post-validation. This allocation allows
us to have a brief but sufficient
observation period for each phase, ensuring
that we can gather meaningful insights from
the experiment.
Example 21:
pre_validation_overview
In the pre-validation phase, we need to
ensure that the system is in its expected
steady states before we proceed with fault
injection. Given the constraints, we have 10
seconds to perform these checks. We have
two steady states to verify: the 'example-
pod-running-state' and the 'example-service-
http-response-state'.
The 'example-pod-running-state' requires us
to check that the Pod is in the 'Running'
state at least 90% of the time. We will use
the provided Python script to verify this.
Since the script checks the Pod status every
second, we can run it for 5 seconds to
gather sufficient data for validation.
The 'example-service-http-response-state'
requires us to ensure that 95% of HTTP
requests return a 200 OK status. We will use
the K6 script to simulate HTTP requests to
the service. The script is configured to run
for 5 seconds with 5 virtual users, which
should provide enough data to validate this
steady state.
Both unit tests will be executed
simultaneously to maximize the use of the
10-second window. This approach ensures that
we efficiently validate both steady states
within the given time constraint, allowing
us to proceed confidently to the fault
injection phase.
- Verified Steady State #0: ```example-pod-
running-state```
- Workflow Name: ```pre-unittest-example-
pod-running-state```
- Grace Period: ```0s```
- Duration: ```5s```
- Verified Steady State #1: ```example-
service-http-response-state```
- Workflow Name: ```pre-unittest-example-
service-http-response-state```
- Grace Period: ```0s```
- Duration: ```5s```
Example 22:
fault_injection_overview
In this fault-injection phase, we aim to
simulate a cyber attack by injecting two
types of faults: PodChaos and NetworkChaos.
The goal is to observe how these faults
impact the system's steady states. Given the
40-second time constraint, we will stagger
the fault injections to maximize the
observation of their effects.
First, we will inject the PodChaos fault to
simulate a Pod failure. This will directly
test the 'example-pod-running-state' steady
state, as the Pod's restart policy is set to
'Never', meaning it will not automatically
recover. We will start this fault injection
immediately at the beginning of the phase
and let it run for 20 seconds.
Simultaneously, we will run the unit test
for the 'example-pod-running-state' to
verify the impact of the PodChaos fault on
the Pod's availability.
After 20 seconds, we will inject the
NetworkChaos fault to simulate network
latency. This will test the 'example-service
-http-response-state' steady state by
introducing delays in HTTP responses. We
will let this fault run for the remaining 20
seconds of the phase.
During the NetworkChaos fault injection, we
will also run the unit test for the 'example
-service-http-response-state' to verify the
impact of network latency on the Service's
64
===== PAGE 65 =====
ability to respond to HTTP requests.
This staggered approach allows us to isolate
the effects of each fault on the respective
steady states, providing clear insights
into the system's vulnerabilities and
resilience.
- Verified Steady State #0: ```example-pod-
running-state```
- Workflow Name: ```fault-unittest-example
-pod-running-state```
- Grace Period: ```0s```
- Duration: ```20s```
- Verified Steady State #1: ```example-
service-http-response-state```
- Workflow Name: ```fault-unittest-example
-service-http-response-state```
- Grace Period: ```20s```
- Duration: ```20s```
- Injected Faults #0: ```PodChaos```
- Workflow Name: ```fault-podchaos```
- Grace Period: ```0s```
- Duration: ```20s```
- Injected Faults #1: ```NetworkChaos```
- Workflow Name: ```fault-networkchaos```
- Grace Period: ```20s```
- Duration: ```20s```
Example 23:
post_validation_overview
In the post-validation phase, we need to
ensure that the system has returned to its
steady states after the fault injection.
Given the 10-second total time for this
phase, we will conduct unit tests to verify
each steady state. The tests will be
executed sequentially due to the short
duration, ensuring that each steady state is
verified independently. The first test will
check the 'example-pod-running-state',
ensuring the Pod is running. The second test
will verify the 'example-service-http-
response-state', ensuring the Service
responds with a 200 OK status. Each test
will have a brief grace period to allow the
system to stabilize after the fault
injection, followed by a short duration to
perform the checks. This approach ensures
that both steady states are validated within
the available time, confirming the system's
recovery.
- Verified Steady State #0: ```example-pod-
running-state```
- Workflow Name: ```post-unittest-example-
pod-running-state```
- Grace Period: ```1s```
- Duration: ```4s```
- Verified Steady State #1: ```example-
service-http-response-state```
- Workflow Name: ```post-unittest-example-
service-http-response-state```
- Grace Period: ```5s```
- Duration: ```4s```
Prompt 17: Agent # 2-3 for adjusting a fail-
ure scope
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given a previous K8s manifests, a
Chaos-Engineering-experiment plan for it,
and the current K8s manifests, you will
determine whether we need to adujst the
scope of fault injections for the current
K8s manifests.
Always keep the following rules:
- Cosider how you must change or keep the
scope (i.e., target) of the fault
injecttion comparing the previous K8s
manifests and the current K8s manifests.
- You only make minor adjustments related
to resource changes, metadata change, etc,
so NEVER make any scope changes that alter
the original goal of the chaos experiment.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema
{\"properties\": {\"foo\": {\"title\":
\"Foo\", \"description\": \"a list of
strings\", \"type\": \"array\", \"items\":
{\"type\": \"string\"}}}, \"required\":
[\"foo\"]}\nthe object {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]} is a well-formatted instance of
the schema. The object {\"properties\":
{\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]}} is not
well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"description": "Describe why you need
to change/keep the scope of the fault
injection for the current K8s
manifests.",
"type": "string"
},
"selector": {
"title": "Selector",
"description": "Adjust the scope
(target) of the fault injection
comparing the differeneces between
the current and previous manifests. ",
"allOf": [
{
"$ref": "#/definitions/Selectors"
}
]
}
},
"required": [
"thought",
"selector"
],
"definitions": {
"SetBasedRequirements": {
"title": "SetBasedRequirements",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"key": {
"title": "Key",
"description": "Label key",
"type": "string"
},
"operator": {
"title": "Operator",
"description": "Select an
operator.",
"enum": [
"In",
"NotIn",
"Exists",
"DoesNotExist"
],
"type": "string"
},
"values": {
"title": "Values",
"description": "Label values. The
values set must be non-empty in
the case of In and NotIn.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
65
===== PAGE 66 =====
"type": "string"
}
}
},
"required": [
"key",
"operator",
"values"
]
},
"Selectors": {
"title": "Selectors",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"namespaces": {
"title": "Namespaces",
"description": "Specifies the
namespace of the experiment's
target Pod. If this selector is
None, Chaos Mesh will set it to
the namespace of the current
Chaos experiment.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"labelSelectors": {
"title": "Labelselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
label-key/value pairs that the
experiment's target Pod must
have. If multiple labels are
specified, the experiment target
must have all the labels
specified by this selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"expressionSelectors": {
"title": "Expressionselectors",
"description": "Specifies a set
of expressions that define the
label's rules to specifiy the
experiment's target Pod.",
"example": [
{
"key": "tier",
"operator": "In",
"values": [
"cache"
]
},
{
"key": "environment",
"operator": "NotIn",
"values": [
"dev"
]
}
],
"type": "array",
"items": {
"$ref":
"#/definitions/SetBasedRequirements"
}
},
"annotationSelectors": {
"title": "Annotationselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
annotation-key/value pairs that
the experiment's target Pod must
have. If multiple annotations are
specified, the experiment target
must have all annotations
specified by this selector.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"fieldSelectors": {
"title": "Fieldselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
field-key/value pairs of the
experiment's target Pod. If
multiple fields are specified,
the experiment target must have
all fields set by this selector.",
"example": {
"metadata.name": "my-pod",
"metadata.namespace": "dafault"
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"podPhaseSelectors": {
"title": "Podphaseselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
phase of the experiment's target
Pod. If this selector is None,
the target Pod's phase is not
limited.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"enum": [
"Pending",
"Running",
"Succeeded",
"Failed",
"Unknown"
],
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodeSelectors": {
"title": "Nodeselectors",
"description": "Specifies the
node-label-key/value pairs to
which the experiment's target Pod
belongs.",
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"nodes": {
"title": "Nodes",
"description": "Specifies the
node to which the experiment's
target Pod belongs. The target
Pod can only belong to one node
in the configured node list. If
multiple node labels are
specified, the node to which the
experiment's target Pod belongs
must have all labels specified by
this selector.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"pods": {
"title": "Pods",
"description": "Specifies the
namespaces and list of the
experiment's target Pods. If you
have specified this selector,
Chaos Mesh ignores other
configured selectors.",
"example": {
"default": [
"pod-0",
"pod-2"
]
},
"type": "object",
"additionalProperties": {
"type": "array",
"items": {
"type": "string"
}
}
}
}
66
===== PAGE 67 =====
}
}
}
```
Human:
# Here is the previous K8s manifests of my
system:
{prev_k8s_yamls}
# Here is a planned Chaos Engineering:
{experiment_plan_summary}
# Here is the current K8s menifests of my
system:
{curr_k8s_yamls}
# Here is the scope of a fault injection
for the previous manifests.
{curr_fault_injection}
Now, please adjust the scope of the fault
injection for the current manifests. Note
that you here focus on the 'selector'
parameter (i.e., scope).
Prompt 18: Agent # 2-4 for adjusting a VaC
script
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given the previous K8s manifests, a
previous unit test to verify whether the
steady state satisfies the threshold, and
the reconfigured K8s manifests, you will
determine whether the unit test requires
adjustment to account for the changes in
the reconfigured manifests, and adjust it
as necessary.
Always keep the following rules:
- First, consider which K8s manifest
resource is the target of the unit test. If
there are changes to that manifest, update
the unit test as necessary. If there are no
changes, the unit test should not require
modification.
- You may only make minor adjustments to
K8s API, HTTP, or DNS request to account
for changes in resource types, parameter
seetings, metadata, etc.
- The reconfiguration was made so that the
system satisfy the threshold value in the
previous unit test, so the threshold value
or other parameters must remain unchanged
in the new unit test. For example, suppose
the number of replicas was reconfigured
from 1 to 3 in order to maintain a steady
state with more than 1 active pod at all
times. In such cases, changing the
threshold value from 1 to 3 would alter the
intent of this steady state, so the
threshold value must remain unchanged
(i.e., more than 1 active pod)."
- If redundancy has been newly added, the
unit test should verify whether the steady
state is maintained by the entire
redundancy.
- If the unit test's content needs no
changes and only function or variable names
need to be changed, leave them as they are
to save output costs.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema
{\"properties\": {\"foo\": {\"title\":
\"Foo\", \"description\": \"a list of
strings\", \"type\": \"array\", \"items\":
{\"type\": \"string\"}}}, \"required\":
[\"foo\"]}\nthe object {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]} is a well-formatted instance of
the schema. The object {\"properties\":
{\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]}} is not
well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"description": "Describe your thought
process for determining whether the
unit test requires adjustment to
account for the changes in the
reconfigured manifests: First,
consider which K8s manifest resource
is the target of the unit test. If
there are changes to that manifest,
update the unit test as necessary. If
there are no changes, the unit test
should not require modification. If
the unit test needs updating,
describe also how you modify the
inspection method according to the
differences between the previous and
reconfigured manifests. If the
modification is not required,
describe the reason.",
"type": "string"
},
"code": {
"title": "Code",
"description": "If the unit test
needs updating, write a new unit test
code with the inspection method
modified. Write only the content of
the code without enclosing it in a
code block. If not, this field is not
required.",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"thought"
]
}
```
Human:
# Here is the previous K8s manifests of my
system:
{prev_k8s_yamls}
# Here is the reconfigured K8s manifests of
my system:
{curr_k8s_yamls}
# Here is the unit test for the previous
manifests.
{prev_unittest}
Now, please determine whether the unit test
requires adjustment to account for the
changes in the reconfigured manifests, and
adjust it as necessary.
In the verification loop, the prompts below will be
stacked as history
AI:
{output}
Human:
Your current unit test causes errors when
conducted.
The error message is as follows:
{error_message}
This unit test should be succeeded.
Please analyze the reason why the errors
67
===== PAGE 68 =====
occur, then fix the errors.
Always keep the following rules:
- NEVER repeat the same fixes that have
been made in the past.
- Fix only the parts related to the errors
without changing the original intent.
- {the same format instructions as in the
System role}
Example 24:
experiment_plan_summary
The Chaos Engineering experiment is
structured into three phases: pre-validation
, fault injection, and post-validation, all
to be completed within a total of 1 minute.
In the pre-validation phase, which lasts for
10 seconds, two unit tests are executed
simultaneously to verify the system's steady
states before any faults are introduced.
The 'example-pod-running-state' is checked
using a Python script to ensure the Pod is
in the 'Running' state at least 90% of the
time. This test runs for 5 seconds.
Concurrently, the 'example-service-http-
response-state' is verified using a K6
script to simulate HTTP requests, ensuring
95% of requests return a 200 OK status. This
test also runs for 5 seconds. Both tests
start immediately at the beginning of the
phase.
The fault injection phase spans 40 seconds
and involves two staggered fault injections.
Initially, the PodChaos fault is injected
to simulate a Pod failure, running for the
first 20 seconds. Simultaneously, the '
example-pod-running-state' unit test is
conducted to observe the impact of this
fault. After 20 seconds, the NetworkChaos
fault is introduced to simulate network
latency, running for the remaining 20
seconds. During this period, the 'example-
service-http-response-state' unit test is
executed to assess the effect of network
delays. This staggered approach allows for
isolated observation of each fault's impact
on the system.
Finally, the post-validation phase, lasting
10 seconds, ensures the system returns to
its steady states after fault removal. The
tests are conducted sequentially. The '
example-pod-running-state' is verified first
, with a 1-second grace period followed by a
4-second test duration. Subsequently, the '
example-service-http-response-state' is
checked, starting after a 5-second grace
period and running for 4 seconds. This
sequence confirms the system's recovery to
its expected steady states.
D.5.4 Analysis
Prompt 19: Agent # 3-0 for analyzing an
experiment results
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given K8s manifests for a network system,
its hypothesis, the overview of a Chaos-
Engineeering experiment, and the
experimental results, you will analyze the
experimental results.
Always keep the following rules:
- Analyze step by step why the test(s)
failed, based on the system configurations (
manifests) and the flow of the experiment.
- Specify the cause while mentioning the
corresponding system configurations and the
corresponding phenomena in the Chaos-
Engineering experiment.
- The analysis report here will be used for
reconfiguring the system later to avoid the
failures and improve resiliency. Therefore,
make carefully the report rich in insights
so that it will be helpful at that time.
- When providing insights and
reconfiguration recommendations, limit them
to areas related to the failed test.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"report": {
"title": "Report",
"description": "Analysis of the
experiment result.",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"report"
]
}
```
Human:
# Here is the overview of my system:
{user_input2}
# Here is the hypothesis for my system:
The hypothesis is "The steady states of the
sytem are maintained even when the fault
scenario occurs (i.e., when the faults are
injected)".
The steady states here are as follows:
{steady_states}
The fault scenario here is as follows:
{detailed_fault_scenario}
# Here is the overview of my Chaos-
Engineering experiment to verify the
hypothesis:
{experiment_plan_summary}
For the first analysis, the following prompt is added
# The experiment's results are as follows:
{experiment_result}
Now, please analyze the results and provide
an analysis report rich in insights.
For the second and subsequent analyses, the following
prompt is added
# The update history for the above K8s
manifests is the following:
68
===== PAGE 69 =====
{reconfig_history}
# The experiment's results in the latest K8s
manifests are as follows:
{experiment_result}
Now, please analyze the results and provide
an analysis report rich in insights.
Example 25: experiment_result
Passed unittests:
- pre-unittest-example-pod-running-state
- pre-unittest-example-service-http-response
-state
Failed unittests:
- fault-unittest-example-pod-running-state
```log
Exception when calling CoreV1Api->
read_namespaced_pod: (404)
Reason: Not Found\nHTTP response headers:
HTTPHeaderDict({'Audit-Id': '8a1e6c00-ebd9
-43ee-9522-6399ce015252', 'Cache-Control': '
no-cache, private', 'Content-Type': '
application/json', 'X-Kubernetes-Pf-
Flowschema-Uid': 'c4624bd9-7fc7-42c6-bcb8
-4235110a860d', 'X-Kubernetes-Pf-
Prioritylevel-Uid': '4706085f-6263-43ae-93f5
-b4a61de8b6be', 'Date': 'Sun, 24 Nov 2024
12:06:18 GMT', 'Content-Length': '190'})
HTTP response body: {\"kind\":\"Status
\"...', 'X-Kubernetes-Pf-Flowschema-Uid': '
c4624bd9-7fc7-42c6-bcb8-4235110a860d', 'X-
Kubernetes-Pf-Prioritylevel-Uid': '4706085f
-6263-43ae-93f5-b4a61de8b6be', 'Date': 'Sun,
24 Nov 2024 12:06:37 GMT', 'Content-Length
': '190'})\nHTTP response body: {\"kind\":\"
Status\",\"apiVersion\":\"v1\",\"metadata
\":{},\"status\":\"Failure\",\"message\":\"
pods \\\"example-pod\\\" not found\",\"
reason\":\"NotFound\",\"details\":{\"name
\":\"example-pod\",\"kind\":\"pods\"},\"code
\":404}
Pod was running 0 out of 20 seconds, which
is 0.00% of the time.
```
- fault-unittest-example-service-http-
response-state
```log
time=\"2024-11-24T12:06:38Z\" level=warning
msg=\"Request Failed\" error=\"Get \\\"http
:\/\/example-service.default.svc.cluster.
local:80\\\": dial tcp 10.96.255.84:80:
connect: connection refused\"\ntime
=\"2024-11-24T12:06:38Z\" level=warning msg
=\"Request Failed\" error=\"Get \\\"http
:\/\/example-service.default.svc.cluster.
local:80\\\": dial tcp 10.96.255.84:80:
connect: connection refused\"\ntime
=\"2024-11-24T12:06:38Z\" level=warning msg
=\"Request Failed\" error=\"Get \\\"http
:\/\/example-service.default.svc.cluster.
local:8... level=error msg=\"thresholds on
metrics 'http_req_failed' have been crossed
```
D.5.5 Improvement
Prompt 20: Agent # 4-0 for reconfiguring
K8s manifests
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given K8s manifests that define a network
system, its hypothesis, the overview of a
Chaos-Engineeering experiment, and the
experiment's results, you will reconfigure
the system based on analysis of the
experiment's results.
Always keep the following rules:
- NEVER change the original intention (its
description) of the original version of the
system.
- NEVER do the same reconfiguration as in
the history.
- Start with simple reconfiguration, and if
the hypothesis is still not satisfied,
gradually try more complex reconfigurations.
- The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"thought": {
"title": "Thought",
"description": "Describe your plan to
modify the K8s manifests.",
"type": "string"
},
"modified_k8s_yamls": {
"title": "Modified K8S Yamls",
"description": "The list of modified
K8s manifests (yamls). If you create a
new manifest to modify resources in
an existing manifest, make sure to
delete the existing manifest before
creating the new one.",
"type": "array",
"items": {
"$ref": "#/definitions/ModK8sYAML"
}
}
},
"required": [
"thought",
"modified_k8s_yamls"
],
"definitions": {
"ModK8sYAML": {
"title": "ModK8sYAML",
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"mod_type": {
"title": "Mod Type",
"description": "Modification type.
Select from ['replace', 'create',
'delete']. The 'replace' replaces
/overwites the content of an
exisiting yaml. The 'create'
creates a new yaml. The 'delete'
deletes an existing yaml.",
"enum": [
"replace",
"create",
"delete"
],
69
===== PAGE 70 =====
"type": "string"
},
"fname": {
"title": "Fname",
"description": "The file name of
the modified yaml. If mod_type is
'replace' or 'delete', the name
must match an existing yaml's name
. If mod_type='create', name the
file appropriately to avoid
overlapping with existing yamls'
names.",
"type": "string"
},
"explanation": {
"title": "Explanation",
"description": "If mod_type is '
delete', explain why you need to
delete the yaml. If mod_type is '
replace', explain which part you
should modify from the original
conde and why. If mod_type is '
create', explain whether it is a
completely new resource or a
replacement resouce for an
existing resource. If it is a
replacement, also explain the
differences and the reasons for
them, just like with 'replace'.",
"type": "string"
},
"code": {
"title": "Code",
"description": "If mod_type is '
delete', this field is not
required. Otherwise, write the
content of a K8s YAML manifest
modified to pass all the unit
tests. Write only the content of
the code, and for dictionary
values, enclose them within a pair
of single double quotes (\").",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"mod_type",
"fname",
"explanation"
]
}
}
}
```
Human:
# Here is the overview of my system (
original version):
{user_input2}
# Here is the hypothesis for my system:
The hypothesis is "The steady states of the
sytem are maintained even when the fault
scenario occurs (i.e., when the faults are
injected)".
The steady states here are as follows:
{steady_states}
The fault scenario here is as follows:
{detailed_fault_scenario}
# Here is the overview of my Chaos-
Engineering experiment to verify the
hypothesis:
{experiment_plan_summary}
# The experiment's results of the original
system are as follows:
{experiment_result}
First, please analyze the results and
provide an analysis report rich in insights.
AI:
# Here is my analysis report:
{analysis_report}
Human:
Then, please reconfigure the system to avoid
the fails (improve resiliency).
In the improvement loop, the prompts below will be
stacked as improvement history
AI:
```json
{output}
```"""
Human:
# Here is the K8s menifests of the modified
system (version={mod_version}):
{k8s_yamls_mod}
# The experiment's results of the modified
system were as follows:
{experiment_result_mod}
Please analyze the results and provide an
analysis report rich in insights again.
AI:
# Here is my analysis report:
{analysis_report_mod}
Human:
Then, please reconfigure the system to avoid
the fails (improve resiliency).
In the verification loop, the prompts below will be
stacked as verification history. Verification history is
kept within a single verification loop and is reset in
every improvement iteration
AI:
```json
{output}
```
User:
Your current unittest causes errors when
conducted.
The error message is as follows:
{error_message}
Please analyze the reason why the errors
occur, then fix the errors.
Always keep the following rules:
- Ensure that the implementation supports
variable durations again.
- NEVER repeat the same fixes that have been
made in the past.
- Fix only the parts related to the errors
without changing the original content.
- {the same format instruction as in the
System role}
Example 26: analysis_report
The Chaos Engineering experiment aimed to
test the system's resilience by simulating a
cyber attack through PodChaos and
NetworkChaos. The experiment results
indicate failures in maintaining the defined
steady states during and after the fault
injection phase. Here is a detailed analysis
of the results:
1. **Pre-Validation Phase:**
- Both pre-unittests, `example-pod-running
70
===== PAGE 71 =====
-state` and `example-service-http-response
-state`, passed successfully. This
indicates that the system was in a healthy
state before the fault injection, with
the Pod running 100% of the time and the
Service responding with a 200 OK status
for all requests.
2. **Fault Injection Phase:**
- **PodChaos Fault:** The `fault-unittest-
example-pod-running-state` failed because
the Pod was not found (404 error) during
the test. This is expected due to the
PodChaos action 'pod-kill', which
terminated the Pod. Since the Pod's
restart policy is set to 'Never', it did
not restart, leading to 0% uptime during
the test. This highlights the critical
issue of having a single Pod with no
redundancy or automatic recovery mechanism
.
- **NetworkChaos Fault:** The `fault-
unittest-example-service-http-response-
state` also failed. The logs show repeated
connection refused errors, indicating
that the Service could not route traffic
to the Pod, as it was not running. This
failure is a direct consequence of the Pod
being unavailable, demonstrating the lack
of redundancy and the impact of a single
point of failure.
3. **Post-Validation Phase:**
- Both post-unittests, `example-pod-
running-state` and `example-service-http-
response-state`, failed. The Pod was still
not found, and the Service continued to
refuse connections. This indicates that
the system did not recover to its steady
states after the faults were removed,
primarily due to the Pod's restart policy
and the absence of a controller to manage
Pod lifecycle and redundancy.
**Insights and Recommendations:**
- **Pod Restart Policy:** The Pod's
restart policy should be changed from '
Never' to 'Always' or 'OnFailure' to
ensure automatic recovery in case of
failures.
- **Redundancy and Scalability:**
Implement a Deployment or ReplicaSet to
manage the Pod. This will provide
redundancy and ensure that a minimum
number of Pods are always running,
improving the system's resilience to
failures.
- **Service Availability:** Ensure that
the Service can handle traffic even if one
Pod fails by having multiple replicas.
This can be achieved by scaling the
Deployment to have more than one replica.
- **Monitoring and Alerts:** Implement
monitoring and alerting mechanisms to
detect and respond to Pod failures
promptly, minimizing downtime.
By addressing these issues, the system can
improve its resilience and maintain its
steady states even during fault scenarios.
D.5.6 Post-processing
Prompt 21: Agent # EX for summarizing a
completed CE cycle
System:
You are a helpful AI assistant for Chaos
Engineering.
Given a summary of a Chaos Engineering cycle
, please elaborate the summary.
The output should be formatted as a JSON
instance that conforms to the JSON schema
below.
As an example, for the schema {\"properties
\": {\"foo\": {\"title\": \"Foo\", \"
description\": \"a list of strings\", \"type
\": \"array\", \"items\": {\"type\": \"
string\"}}}, \"required\": [\"foo\"]}\nthe
object {\"foo\": [\"bar\", \"baz\"]} is a
well-formatted instance of the schema. The
object {\"properties\": {\"foo\": [\"bar\",
\"baz\"]}} is not well-formatted.
Here is the output schema:
```
{
"properties": {
"summary": {
"title": "Summary",
"type": "string"
}
},
"required": [
"summary"
]
}
```
Human:
Here is the overview of a Chaos Engineering
Cycle:
# Here is a Chaos Engineering cycle
## Step 0. User-input understanding
### Here is the overview of user inputs:
{user_input2}
## Step 1. Hypothesis definition
### Here is the overview of the hypothesis
for the system:
The hypothesis is "The steady states of the
system are maintained even when the fault
scenario occurs (i.e., when the faults are
injected)".
The steady states here are as follows:
{steady_states}
The fault scenario here is as follows:
{detailed_fault_scenario}
## Step 2.1. Chaos-Engineering experiment
### Here is the overview of my Chaos-
Engineering experiment to verify the
hypothesis:
{experiment_plan_summary}
## Step 2.2, 3, 4. Experiment execution,
analysis and improvement (reconfiguring the
system to satisfy the hypothesis)
### Here is the improvement history:
{improvement_history}
Please elaborate the above summary of a
Chaos Engineering Cycle.
Example 27: improvement_history
### Experiment result (1st try)
//{experiment_result}//
### Analysis report (1st try)
//analysis_report//
### Improvement result (1st try)
1 K8s manifests are modified:
- The K8s manifest 'nginx/pod.yaml' was
replaced.
Replace the Pod manifest with a Deployment
manifest to provide redundancy and automatic
recovery. The Deployment will manage the
Pod lifecycle, ensuring that a specified
71
===== PAGE 72 =====
number of replicas are always running, which
addresses both the restart policy and
redundancy issues.
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: example-deployment
labels:
app: example
spec:
replicas: 3
selector:
matchLabels:
app: example
template:
metadata:
labels:
app: example
spec:
containers:
- name: example-container
image: nginx:1.17.1
ports:
- containerPort: 80
```
### Experiment result (2nd try)
Passed unittests:
- pre-unittest-example-pod-running-state
- pre-unittest-example-service-http-response
-state
- fault-unittest-example-pod-running-state
- fault-unittest-example-service-http-
response-state
- post-unittest-example-pod-running-state
- post-unittest-example-service-http-
response-state
Failed unittests:
E Full Results of Case Studies
In this section, we provide full inputs and outputs
for each run studied in the case study. The inputs
include instructions, Skaffold configuration files,
K8s manifests. The outputs include VaC scripts,
Chaos Mesh workflow manifests, reconfigured K8s
manifests, adjusted VaC scripts in the experiment
replanning phase. In the case study, we pick up the
fourth run for NGINX and the fifth run for SOCK -
SHOP. Table 4 shows the statistics of NGINX and
SOCK SHOP. Before showing the full results, we
describe the CE cycles for each system referring to
their highlight outputs.
Table 4: Statistics of the systems for the case study.
Tokens are counted by the tokenizercl100k_base.
System # manifests # lines # words # tokens
NGINX 2 24 373 115
SOCK SHOP 29 869 17696 4605
Description of the results for NGINX In the
hypothesis phase, CHAOS EATER first defines two
steady states: 1) “The Pod should be running at
least 90% of the time during the check period";
2) “Service availability should be at least 99.9%
with a response status of 200". The VaC scripts
shown in Figure 2 correctly implement these steady
states. It then defines a failure sequence that injects
NetworkChaos (delay) into the NginxPod fol-
lowingPodChaos (pod-kill) to simulate a cyber-
attack.
In the experiment planning, it plans the follow-
ing chaos experiment: 1) the two steady states are
sequentially validated in the pre-validation phase;
2) in the failure-injection phase, the two steady
states are sequentially validated alongside the in-
jection of each failure that may affect them; 3) the
two steady states are validated sequentially once
again in the post-validation phase.
The first chaos experiment reveals that the two
steady states are currently not satisfied in both
the failure-injection and post-validation phases.
CHAOS EATER successfully identifies the cause as
the Nginx Pod’s never restarting policy and re-
places it with aDeployment with three replicas.
It then adjusts the success criteria of the VaC script
to ensure that at least one Pod out of three replicas
is running and conducts the chaos experiment for
the reconfigured system again. Finally, the addi-
tional chaos experiment confirms that the hypothe-
sis is satisfied in the reconfigured system.
Intuitively, these operations and outputs follow
best practices, demonstrating that CHAOS EATER
can complete our expected CE cycle for the small-
scale system, NGINX , without explicit user instruc-
tions.
Description of the results for SOCK SHOP In
the hypothesis phase, CHAOS EATER first defines
two steady states: 1) “At least 1 ready replica 100%
of the time and 2 ready replicas at least 80% of
the time during the monitoring period" for the carts
Deployment; 2) “At least 1 ready replica must
be present 100% of the time during the monitoring
period" for the front-endDeployment. The VaC
scripts shown in Figure 2 correctly implement these
steady states.
It then defines a failure sequence that injects
StressChaos (CPU) into all the carts-db repli-
cas following PodChaos (pod-kill) that targets
the single front-end replica to simulate possible
problems in a black Friday sale.
In the experiment planning, it plans the follow-
ing chaos experiment: 1) the two steady states
are simultaneously validated in the pre-validation
phase; 2) in the failure-injection phase, the two
72
===== PAGE 73 =====
steady states are sequentially validated alongside
the injection of each failure that may affect them; 3)
the two steady states are validated simultaneously
once again in the post-validation phase.
The first chaos experiment reveals that the sec-
ond steady state is currently not satisfied in both
the failure-injection and post-validation phases.
CHAOS EATER successfully identifies the cause
as the single replica setting of the front-end
Deployment and increases the number of repli-
cas to two. It then conducts the chaos experiment
for the reconfigured system again without experi-
ment adjustments (no adjustment is needed as the
resource type remains unchanged). Finally, the
additional chaos experiment confirms that the hy-
pothesis is satisfied in the reconfigured system.
This case also broadly follows best practices,
demonstrating that CHAOS EATER can complete
our expected CE cycle even for the comparatively
large system, SOCK SHOP, without explicit user
instructions.
E.1 Nginx
E.1.1 Inputs
Instructions
The Chaos-Engineering experiment must be
completed within 1 minute.
skaffold.yaml
apiVersion: skaffold/v3
kind: Config
metadata:
name: nginx-app
manifests:
rawYaml:
- pod.yaml
- service.yaml
pod.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
name: example-pod
labels:
app: example
spec:
restartPolicy: Never
containers:
- name: example-container
image: nginx:1.17.1
ports:
- containerPort: 80
service.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: example-service
spec:
selector:
app: example
ports:
- protocol: TCP
port: 80
targetPort: 80
E.1.2 CE cycle completed by C HAOS EATER
Preprocessing
Summaries of each manifest
nginx/pod.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes Pod.
- The Pod is named 'example-pod'.
- It includes metadata with a label 'app:
example'.
- The Pod's restart policy is set to
'Never', meaning it won't restart
automatically
if it fails.
- The Pod contains one container named
'example-container'.
- The container uses the 'nginx:1.17.1'
image, which is a specific version of the
Nginx webserver.
- The container exposes port 80, which is
commonly used for HTTP traffic.
nginx/service.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'example-service'.
- It uses the 'v1' API version.
- The Service selects pods with the label
'app: example'.
- It exposes the Service on port 80 using
the TCP protocol.
- The Service forwards traffic to the
target port 80 on the selected pods.
Resiliency issues/weaknesses in the
manifests
Issue #0: Pod Restart Policy
details: The Pod will not restart
automatically if it fails, which can lead
to downtime.
manifests having the issues:
['nginx/pod.yaml']
problematic config: restartPolicy: Never
Issue #1: Single Pod Deployment
details: Having a single Pod means there is
no redundancy. If the Pod fails, the
service will be unavailable.
manifests having the issues:
['nginx/pod.yaml']
problematic config: Only one Pod is defined
without a Deployment or ReplicaSet.
Application of the manifests
Thoughts:
The manifests provided define a Kubernetes
Pod and a Service. The Pod runs an Nginx
container, which is a popular web server
used to serve static content, reverse
proxy, or load balance HTTP traffic. The
Service is configured to expose this Pod on
port 80, which is the default port for HTTP
traffic. Given the use of Nginx and the
configuration of the Service, it is logical
to assume that these manifests are intended
to deploy a simple web server application.
The file names and the use of Nginx further
73
===== PAGE 74 =====
support this assumption.
Assumed application:
A simple web server application using Nginx
to serve HTTP content.
Summary of user instructions
- The Chaos-Engineering experiment must be
completed within 1 minute.
Steady state #1: example-pod-running
//Description//
The first issue to address is the Pod's
restart policy set to 'Never'. This is a
critical issue because if the Pod fails, it
will not restart, leading to potential
downtime. Therefore, the steady state
should ensure that the Pod is running and
available. A measurable output for this
steady state is the number of running Pods,
which should be 1, as there is only one Pod
defined in the manifest. This steady state
will help verify that the Pod is up and
running, which is crucial given the restart
policy configuration.
//Current state inspection//
To inspect whether the 'example-pod' is
running, I will use the K8s API. This is
because the state to be checked is the
status of a Kubernetes resource,
specifically the Pod, which is best done
using the Kubernetes client libraries. The
script will check the status of the Pod
every second for a duration of 5 seconds,
which is within the allowed maximum
duration. This will ensure that the Pod is
running and available, addressing the
critical issue of the Pod's restart policy
being set to 'Never'.
tool: k8s duration: 5s
Inspection script (Python)
k8s_example-pod-running.py :
```
import os
import time
from kubernetes import client, config
# Load Kubernetes configuration based on
the environment
if os.getenv('KUBERNETES_SERVICE_HOST'):
config.load_incluster_config()
else:
config.load_kube_config()
v1 = client.CoreV1Api()
def check_pod_status(namespace, pod_name):
try:
pod = v1.read_namespaced_pod(
name=pod_name, namespace=names)
return pod.status.phase == 'Running'
except client.exceptions.ApiException
as e:
print(f"Exception when calling
CoreV1Api->read_namespaced_po
return False
def main(duration):
namespace = 'default'
pod_name = 'example-pod'
running_count = 0
for _ in range(duration):
if check_pod_status(namespace,
pod_name):
running_count += 1
time.sleep(1)
print(f"Pod '{pod_name}' running status
checked {duration} times
if __name__ == '__main__':
import argparse
parser =
argparse.ArgumentParser(description='Check
if a pod is
parser.add_argument('--duration',
type=int, default=5, help='Dur
args = parser.parse_args()
main(args.duration)
```
The inspection script's results (current
states) are as follows:
```
Pod 'example-pod' running status checked 5
times. Running count: 5.
```
//Threshold//
The steady state we are considering is
whether the 'example-pod' is running. The
current state shows that the pod was
checked 5 times over a duration of 5
seconds, and it was running each time,
resulting in a running count of 5. This
indicates that the pod is consistently
running during the check period. Given the
constraints of the chaos engineering
experiment, which must be completed within
1 minute, we can set a threshold that
allows for some tolerance in case of brief
fluctuations. A reasonable threshold would
be that the pod should be running at least
90% of the time during the
check period. This allows for a small
margin of error while still ensuring that
the pod is generally available and running.
The pod should be running at least 90% of
the time during the check period.
//Unit test to validate the steady state//
To add the threshold assertion to the
inspection Python script, I will calculate
the percentage of time the pod is running
during the specified duration. The
threshold is set to 90%, meaning the pod
should be running at least 90% of the time
during the check period. I will implement a
for-loop to check the pod status every
second for the specified duration and then
assert that the running percentage is
greater than or equal to 90%. This ensures
that the pod is generally available and
running, allowing for a small margin of
error.
```
import os
import time
import argparse
from kubernetes import client, config
from unittest_base import K8sAPIBase
class TestPodRunningState(K8sAPIBase):
def __init__(self):
super().__init__()
def check_pod_status(self, namespace,
pod_name):
try:
pod =
self.v1.read_namespaced_pod(
name=pod_name,
namespace=namespace)
return pod.status.phase ==
'Running'
except
client.exceptions.ApiException as e:
print(f"Exception when calling
CoreV1Api->read_namespaced_pod:
{e}")
return False
def test_pod_running_state(self,
duration):
namespace = 'default'
74
===== PAGE 75 =====
pod_name = 'example-pod'
running_count = 0
# Check the pod status every second
for the specified duration
for _ in range(duration):
if
self.check_pod_status(namespace,
pod_name):
running_count += 1
time.sleep(1)
# Calculate the running percentage
running_percentage = (running_count
/ duration) * 100
# Assert that the running
percentage is at least 90%
assert running_percentage >= 90,
f"Pod '{pod_name}' running
percentage is below threshold:
{running_percentage}%"
print(f"Pod '{pod_name}' running
status checked {duration} times.
Running percentage:
{running_percentage}%.")
def main():
parser =
argparse.ArgumentParser(description='Test
if a pod is running at least 90% of the
time.')
parser.add_argument('--duration',
type=int, default=5, help='Duration to
check the pod status in seconds.')
args = parser.parse_args()
test = TestPodRunningState()
test.test_pod_running_state(args.duration)
if __name__ == '__main__':
main()
```
The unit test results are as follows:
```
Pod 'example-pod' running status checked 5
times. Running percentage 100%.
```
Steady state #2: example-service-
availability
Description
The next issue to address is the 'Single
Pod Deployment', which is related to the
lack of redundancy. This is a significant
issue because if the single Pod fails, the
service will be unavailable. To verify
this, we can define a steady state that
checks the availability of the service
itself. A measurable output for this steady
state is the service's response time or
availability. Since the service is exposed
on port 80, we can check if the service is
responding to HTTP requests. This steady
state will help verify that the service is
available and responsive, which is crucial
given the single Pod deployment
configuration.
Current state inspection
To inspect the availability of the
'example-service', we need to check if the
service is responding to HTTP requests.
Since the service is exposed on port 80, we
can use k6 to simulate HTTP requests to the
service and measure its response time and
availability. This approach allows us to
verify the service's responsiveness and
availability, which is crucial given the
single Pod deployment configuration. We
will use a small number of virtual users
and a short duration to fit within the
1-minute constraint of the Chaos
Engineering experiment.
tool: k6 vus: 1 duration: 5s
Inspection script (Javascript)
k6_example-service-availability.js :
```
import http from 'k6/http';
import { check } from 'k6';
export const options = {
vus: 1,
duration: '5s',
};
export default function () {
const res = http.get(
'http://example-service.default.svc.cluster
.local'
)
check(res, {
'status is 200': (r) => r.status ===
200,
});
}
```
The inspection script's results (current
states) are as follows:
```
OK status is 200
checks..........: 100.00% 13915 out of 13915
data_received...: 12 MB 2.4 MB/s
data_sent.......: 1.5 MB 306 kB/s
http_req_blocked...: avg=8.11µs min=1.4µs
med=4.19µs max=2.82ms
p(90)=6.47µs
p(95)=7.28µs
http_req_connecting...: avg=2.23µs min=0s
med=0s max=345.12µs
p(90)=0s p(95)=0s
http_req_duration...: avg=236.57µs
min=90.31µs
med=232.08µs
max=3.38ms
p(90)=263.84µs
p(95)=280.9µs
{expected_response:true}...: avg=236.57µs
min=90.31µs
med=232.08µs
max=3.38ms
p(90)=263.84µs
p(95)=280.9µs
http_req_failed...: 0.00% 0 out of 13915
http_req_receiving...: avg=67.9µs
min=17.89µs
med=61.39µs
max=2.36ms
p(90)=91.92µs
p(95)=99.14µs
http_req_sending...: avg=18.51µs min=4.66µs
med=14.77µs max=2.51ms
p(90)=21.11µs
p(95)=23.45µs
http_req_tls_handshaking...: avg=0s min=0s
med=0s max=0s
p(90)=0s
p(95)=0s
http_req_waiting...: avg=150.16µs
min=54.98µs
med=151.23µs
max=880.47µs
p(90)=168.67µs
p(95)=176.19µs
http_reqs...: 13915 2782.666155/s
iteration_duration...: avg=344.61µs
min=131.12µs
med=333.12µs
max=3.98ms
75
===== PAGE 76 =====
p(90)=377.15µs
p(95)=401.15µs
iterations...: 13915 2782.666155/s
vus..........: 1 min=1 max=1
vus_max......: 1 min=1 max=1
```
Threshold
The steady state we are considering is the
availability of the 'example-service'. The
k6 test results show that the service is
currently responding with a 200 status code
for all requests, indicating 100%
availability. Given that the system
consists of a single Pod, any failure in
the Pod would result in the service being
unavailable. Therefore, the threshold
should ensure that the service remains
available and responsive. To account for
minor fluctuations and network latency, a
reasonable threshold would be to maintain a
high availability percentage, slightly
below 100% to allow for brief, noncritical
failures. A threshold of 99.9% availability
is a common standard for web services,
allowing for some tolerance while still
ensuring high reliability.
Service availability should be at least
99.9% with a response status of 200.
Unit test to validate the steady state
To add the threshold check to the k6
script, I will include a 'thresholds'
property in the 'options' section. This
property will specify that the service's
availability should be at least 99.9% with
a response status of 200. This is done by
setting a threshold on the
'http_req_failed' metric, ensuring that the
failure rate is less than or equal to 0.1%
(which corresponds to 99.9% availability).
```
import http from 'k6/http';
import { check } from 'k6';
export const options = {
vus: 1,
duration: '5s',
thresholds: {
// Ensure that the service availability
is at least 99.9%
'http_req_failed': ['rate<=0.001'], //
0.1% failure rate corresponds to 99.9%
availability
},
};
export default function () {
const res = http.get(
'http://example-service.default.svc
.cluster.local:80');
check(res, {
'status is 200': (r) => r.status ===
200,
});
}
```
The unit test results are as follows:
```
OK status is 200
checks...: 100.00% 14565 out of 14565
data_received.......: 12 MB 2.5 MB/s
data_sent...........: 1.6 MB 320 kB/s
http_req_blocked....: avg=7.92µs min=1.33µs
med=4.1...
http_req_connecting...: avg=2.19µs min=0s
med=0s...
http_req_duration.....: avg=225.1µs
min=82.21µs
med=226...
{ expected_response:true }...: avg=225.1µs
min=82.21µs
med=226...
OK http_req_failed...: 0.00% 0 out of 14565
http_req_receiving...: avg=66.97µs
min=15.24µs
med=60...
http_req_sending.....: avg=17.27µs
min=4.03µs
med=13...
http_req_tls_handshaking...: avg=0s min=0s
med=0s...
http_req_waiting.....: avg=140.85µs
min=53.55µs
med=144...
http_reqs............: 14565 2912.709122/s
iteration_duration...: avg=329.52µs
min=117.97µs
med=323...
iterations...........: 14565 2912.709122/s
vus..................: 1 min=1 max=1
vus_max..............: 1 min=1 max=1
```
Failure senario: Cyber Attack
Description
Given the system's weaknesses, a cyber
attack targeting the single Pod and its
network could be highly impactful. The
Pod's restart policy set to 'Never' means
that if the Pod fails, it will not restart,
leading to downtime. Additionally, the
single Pod deployment means there is no
redundancy, so any failure will make the
service unavailable. To simulate a cyber
attack, we can start by injecting a
PodChaos fault to kill the Pod, testing the
system's ability to handle Pod failures.
This will directly exploit the lack of
redundancy and the restart policy issue.
Next, we can simulate a network attack
using NetworkChaos to introduce network
latency, testing the service's ability to
maintain availability under network stress.
This sequence simulates a cyber attack by
first taking down the Pod and then
stressing the network, revealing the
system's vulnerabilities in handling such
scenarios.
Failure-injection sequence
PodChaos ({'pod': 'example-pod'}) ->
NetworkChaos ({'service':
'example-service'}):
Detailed failure parameters
Detailed parameters of PodChaos ({'pod':
'example-pod'})
```
{
"action": "pod-kill",
"mode": "one",
"selector": {
"namespaces": [
"default"
],
"labelSelectors": {
"app": "example"
}
}
}
```
Detailed parameters of NetworkChaos
({'service': 'example-service'}):
```
{
"action": "delay",
"direction": "to",
"target": {
"mode": "all",
"selector": {
"namespaces": ["default"],
76
===== PAGE 77 =====
"labelSelectors": {
"app": "example"
}
}
},
"mode": "all",
"selector": {
"namespaces": ["default"],
"labelSelectors": {
"app": "example"
}
},
"device": "eth0",
"delay": {
"latency": "100ms",
"jitter": "10ms",
"correlation": "50"
}
}
```
Chaos experiment (Planning)
Time schedule
Given the constraints of the chaos
engineering experiment, which must be
completed within 1 minute, we need to
allocate time efficiently across the three
phases: prevalidation, fault-injection, and
post-validation. The pre-validation phase
is crucial to ensure that the system is in
a steady state before we introduce any
faults. Since we have two steady states to
validate, we should allocate a reasonable
amount of time to check both the pod's
running status and the service's
availability. A duration of 15 seconds
should be sufficient for pre-validation,
allowing us to run the necessary checks
multiple times. The fault-injection phase
is where we introduce the chaos to observe
the system's behavior under stress. Given
the complexity of the faults (PodChaos and
NetworkChaos), we should allocate the
majority of the time to this phase to
ensure that the faults have enough time to
manifest and impact the system. A duration
of 30 seconds is appropriate for fault
injection, allowing us to observe the
system's response to both pod failure and
network latency. Finally, the
post-validation phase is essential to
verify that the system returns to its
steady states after the faults are removed.
We should allocate 15 seconds for
post-validation, similar to the
pre-validation phase, to ensure that the
system stabilizes and meets the defined
thresholds for steady states. This
allocation results in a total experiment
time of 60 seconds, which fits within the
1-minute constraint.
Total experiment time: 60s
Pre-validation Phase : 15s
Fault-injection Phase: 30s
Post-validation Phase: 15s
Pre-validation phase
In the pre-validation phase, we need to
ensure that the system is in its expected
steady state before we proceed with fault
injection. Given the constraints of a
15-second total time for this phase, we
will conduct two unit tests to verify the
steady states: one for the pod's running
status and another for the service's
availability. These tests will be executed
sequentially due to the short duration
available, ensuring that each steady state
is verified independently and thoroughly.
The first test will check if the
'examplepod' is running at least 90% of the
time over a 5-second period. This is
crucial because
the pod's restart policy is set to 'Never',
and we need to confirm its availability
before introducing any faults. The second
test will verify the 'example-service'
availability, ensuring it responds with a
200 status code at least 99.9% of the time
over another 5-second period. This test is
essential to confirm that the service is
operational and responsive, given the
single pod deployment. By staggering these
tests, we can focus on each steady state
individually, allowing us to identify any
issues before proceeding to the fault
injection phase.
- Verified Steady State #0:
example-pod-running
- Workflow Name:
pre-unittest-example-pod-running
- Grace Period: 0s
- Duration: 5s
- Verified Steady State #1:
example-service-availability
- Workflow Name:
pre-unittest-example-service-availability
- Grace Period: 5s
- Duration: 5s
Fault-injection phase
In this fault-injection phase, we aim to
simulate a cyber attack by injecting two
types of faults: PodChaos and NetworkChaos.
The total duration for this phase is 30
seconds, so we need to carefully schedule
the faults and unit tests to fit within
this timeframe.
First, we will inject the PodChaos fault to
simulate a pod failure. This fault will be
injected at the start of the phase (grace
period of 0s) and will last for 10 seconds.
This duration is chosen to allow enough
time for the system to experience the
impact of the pod being killed, given the
pod's restart policy is set to 'Never'.
Simultaneously, we will run the unit test
for the 'example-pod-running' steady state
to verify if the pod is running at least
90% of the time during the fault injection.
This test will also start at 0s and run for
10 seconds, aligning with the PodChaos
duration.
Next, we will inject the NetworkChaos fault
to simulate network latency. This fault
will start at 10 seconds (aer the PodChaos
fault ends) and will last for 20 seconds.
This staggered approach allows us to
observe the system's behavior under network
stress after the pod failure has been
simulated.
During the NetworkChaos fault, we will run
the unit test for the
'example-serviceavailability' steady state.
This test will start at 10 seconds and run
for 20 seconds, matching the NetworkChaos
duration. This ensures we are checking the
service's availability and response time
while the network is under stress.
By staggering the faults and aligning the
unit tests with the fault durations, we can
effectively observe the system's behavior
under each fault condition and verify if
the steady states are maintained.
- Verified Steady State #0:
example-pod-running
- Workflow Name:
77
===== PAGE 78 =====
fault-unittest-example-pod-running
- Grace Period: 0s
- Duration: 10s
- Verified Steady State #1:
example-service-availability
- Workflow Name:
fault-unittest-example-service-availability
- Grace Period: 10s
- Duration: 20s
- Injected Faults #0: PodChaos
- Workflow Name: fault-podchaos
- Grace Period: 0s
- Duration: 10s
- Injected Faults #1: NetworkChaos
- Workflow Name: fault-networkchaos
- Grace Period: 10s
- Duration: 20s
Post-validation phase
In the post-validation phase, we need to
ensure that the system has returned to its
steady states aer the fault injection.
Given the 15-second time constraint, we
will perform quick checks to verify the
steady states. The two steady states to
verify are: 1) the 'example-pod' is
running, and 2) the 'example-service' is
available. We will execute these checks
sequentially due to the short duration,
ensuring each test has enough time to
gather meaningful data. The first test will
check the pod's running status, followed by
the service availability test. This order
is logical because the pod must be running
for the service to be available. Each test
will have a brief grace period to allow the
system to stabilize aer the fault
injection, followed by a short duration to
perform the checks.
- Verified Steady State #0:
example-pod-running
- Workflow Name:
post-unittest-example-pod-running
- Grace Period: 2s
- Duration: 6s
- Verified Steady State #1:
example-service-availability
- Workflow Name:
post-unittest-example-service-availability
- Grace Period: 8s
- Duration: 5s
Summary
The chaos engineering experiment is
structured into three phases:
pre-validation, fault-injection, and
post-validation, all to be completed within
a total of 60 seconds.
In the pre-validation phase, which lasts
for 15 seconds, two unit tests are
conducted sequentially to ensure the system
is in a steady state before fault
injection. The first test, named
'pre-unittest-example-pod-running', checks
the 'example-pod' running status. It starts
immediately at the beginning of the phase
and runs for 5 seconds. Following this, the
second test,
'pre-unittest-example-service-availability',
begins at the 5-second mark and also runs
for 5 seconds, verifying the service's
availability.
The fault-injection phase spans 30 seconds
and involves two types of faults: PodChaos
and NetworkChaos. Initially, the PodChaos
fault, named 'fault-podchaos', is injected
at the start of the phase and lasts for 10
seconds. Concurrently, the
'fault-unittestexample-pod-running' unit
test runs for the same duration to verify
the pod's status during the fault. Aer the
PodChaos fault concludes, the NetworkChaos
fault, named 'fault-networkchaos', begins
at the 10-second mark and continues for 20
seconds. Simultaneously, the
'fault-unittest-example-service-availability'
test runs for 20 seconds, starting at the
same time as the NetworkChaos fault, to
check the service's availability under
network stress.
Finally, the post-validation phase, also 15
seconds long, ensures the system returns to
its steady states. The
'post-unittest-example-pod-running' test
starts after a 2-second grace period and
runs for 6 seconds to verify the pod's
status. Subsequently, the
'postunittest-example-service-availability'
test begins at the 8-second mark and runs
for 5 seconds, checking the service's
availability. This sequential execution
allows for a brief stabilization period
before each test.
The generated Chaos Mesh workflow manifest:
```
apiVersion: chaos-mesh.org/v1alpha1
kind: Workflow
metadata:
name: chaos-experiment-20241124-132854
spec:
entry: the-entry
templates:
#-------------------------------
# entry point of whole workflow
#-------------------------------
- name: the-entry
templateType: Serial
deadline: 30m51s
children:
- pre-validation-phase
- fault-injection-phase
- post-validation-phase
#-------------------------------------
# Entry point of pre-validation-phase
#-------------------------------------
- name: pre-validation-phase
templateType: Serial
deadline: 10m10s
children:
-
pre-validation-overlapped-workflows
- name: pre-validation-suspend-workflow
templateType: Serial
deadline: 5m10s
children:
- pre-validation-suspend
- pre-unittest-example-service-
availability
- name: pre-validation-suspend
templateType: Suspend
deadline: 5s
- name:
pre-validation-overlapped-workflows
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m10s
children:
- pre-unittest-example-pod-running
- pre-validation-suspend-workflow
# Definitions of children of
pre-validation-phase
- name: pre-unittest-example-pod-running
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m5s
task:
container:
name:
78
===== PAGE 79 =====
pre-unittest-example-pod-running-
container
image: chaos-eater/k8sapi:1.0
imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
command: ["/bin/bash", "-c"]
args: ["python
/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241124
_132128/unittest_example-pod-running
_mod0.py --duration 5"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
- name:
pre-unittest-example-service-availability
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m5s
task:
container:
name:
pre-unittest-example-service-
availability-container
image: grafana/k6:latest
command: ["k6", "run",
"--duration", "5s", "--quiet",
"/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241124
_132128/unittest_example-service-
availability_mod0.js"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
#--------------------------------------
# Entry point of fault-injection-phase
#--------------------------------------
- name: fault-injection-phase
templateType: Serial
deadline: 10m30s
children:
-
fault-injection-overlapped-workflows
- name:
fault-injection-parallel-workflow
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m10s
children:
- fault-unittest-example-pod-running
- fault-podchaos
- name: fault-injection-suspend-workflow
templateType: Serial
deadline: 5m30s
children:
- fault-injection-suspend
- fault-injection-parallel-workflows
- name: fault-injection-suspend
templateType: Suspend
deadline: 10s
- name:
fault-injection-parallel-workflows
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m20s
children:
- fault-unittest-example-service-
availability
- fault-networkchaos
- name:
fault-injection-overlapped-workflows
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m30s
children:
- fault-injection-parallel-workflow
- fault-injection-suspend-workflow
# Definitions of children of
pre-validation-phase
# unit tests
- name:
fault-unittest-example-pod-running
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m10s
task:
container:
name:
fault-unittest-example-pod-running-
container
image: chaos-eater/k8sapi:1.0
imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
command: ["/bin/bash", "-c"]
args: ["python
/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241124
_132128/unittest_example-pod-running
_mod0.py --duration 10"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
- name:
fault-unittest-example-service-availability
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m20s
task:
container:
name:
fault-unittest-example-service-
availability-container
image: grafana/k6:latest
command: ["k6", "run",
"--duration", "20s", "--quiet",
"/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241124
_132128/unittest_example-service-
availability_mod0.js"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
# fault_injections
- name: fault-podchaos
templateType: PodChaos
deadline: 10s
podChaos:
action: pod-kill
mode: one
selector:
labelSelectors:
app: example
namespaces:
- default
- name: fault-networkchaos
templateType: NetworkChaos
deadline: 20s
networkChaos:
action: delay
delay:
correlation: '50'
jitter: 10ms
latency: 100ms
device: eth0
direction: to
mode: all
selector:
labelSelectors:
app: example
namespaces:
- default
target:
mode: all
selector:
79
===== PAGE 80 =====
labelSelectors:
app: example
namespaces:
- default
#--------------------------------------
# Entry point of post-validation phase
#--------------------------------------
- name: post-validation-phase
templateType: Serial
deadline: 10m11s
children:
-
post-validation-overlapped-workflows
- name: post-validation-suspend-workflow
templateType: Serial
deadline: 5m8s
children:
- post-validation-suspend
- post-unittest-example-pod-running
- name: post-validation-suspend
templateType: Suspend
deadline: 2s
- name:
post-validation-suspend-workflow2
templateType: Serial
deadline: 5m11s
children:
- post-validation-suspend2
- post-unittest-example-service-
availability
- name: post-validation-suspend2
templateType: Suspend
deadline: 6s
- name:
post-validation-overlapped-workflows
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m11s
children:
- post-validation-suspend-workflow
- post-validation-suspend-workflow2
# Definitions of children of
pre-validation-phase
- name:
post-unittest-example-pod-running
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m6s
task:
container:
name:
post-unittest-example-pod-running-
container
image: chaos-eater/k8sapi:1.0
imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
command: ["/bin/bash", "-c"]
args: ["python
/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241124
_132128/unittest_example-pod-running
_mod0.py --duration 6"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
- name:
post-unittest-example-service-availability
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m5s
task:
container:
name:
post-unittest-example-service-
availability-container
image: grafana/k6:latest
command: ["k6", "run",
"--duration", "5s", "--quiet",
"/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241124
_132128/unittest_example-service-
availability_mod0.js"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
```
Analysis
The chaos engineering experiment results
indicate several critical issues in the
system's configuration and its ability to
handle faults, particularly in the context
of the defined fault scenario. Here is a
detailed analysis of the failures observed
during the experiment:
1. Pod Restart Policy and Single Pod
Deployment:
The 'fault-unittest-example-pod-running'
test failed because the Pod was not found
after the PodChaos fault was injected. This
is directly related to the Pod's restart
policy set to 'Never' in the nginx/pod.yaml
manifest. When the Pod was killed, it did
not restart, leading to a 404 error when
attempting to read the Pod's status. This
confirms the identified issue #0 (Pod
Restart Policy) and issue #1 (Single Pod
Deployment), where the lack of redundancy
and automatic recovery mechanisms resulted
in the Pod being unavailable.
2. Service Availability:
The
'fault-unittest-example-service-availability'
test failed due to connection refusals,
indicating that the service was
unavailable. This failure is a consequence
of the Pod being killed and not restarting,
as the Service relies on the Pod to handle
requests. The Service's selector in
nginx/service.yaml targets Pods with the
label 'app: example', and with the Pod
being down, there were no endpoints
available to serve the requests, leading to
the connection refused errors.
3. Post-Validation Failures:
Both 'post-unittest-example-pod-running'
and
'post-unittest-example-service-availability'
tests failed, showing that the system did
not recover to its steady state after the
fault injection. The Pod remained
unavailable, and consequently, the Service
could not respond to HTTP requests. This
further highlights the critical impact of
the Pod's restart policy and the lack of
redundancy.
Insights and Recommendations:
- Pod Restart Policy: Change the Pod's
restart policy from 'Never' to 'Always' or
'OnFailure' to ensure that the Pod
automatically restarts if it fails. This
will help maintain the Pod's availability
and reduce downtime.
- Redundancy and Scalability: Implement a
Deployment or ReplicaSet to manage the Pod.
This will provide redundancy by running
multiple replicas of the Pod, ensuring that
the Service remains available even if one
Pod fails.
80
===== PAGE 81 =====
- Service Resilience: Consider using a
LoadBalancer or Ingress to manage traffic
to multiple Pods, enhancing the system's
ability to handle failures and maintain
service availability.
By addressing these issues, the system can
improve its resilience against similar
fault scenarios in the future, ensuring
that the steady states are maintained even
when faults are injected.
Improvement
To improve the resiliency of the system, I
will replace the Pod with a Deployment to
manage the Pod's lifecycle and provide
redundancy. This will address both the
restart policy issue and the single Pod
deployment issue by ensuring that multiple
replicas of the Pod are running and can
automatically restart if they fail.
Modification_type: replace
File name: nginx/pod.yaml
Replace the Pod with a Deployment to manage
the Pod's lifecycle and provide redundancy.
This will ensure that multiple replicas of
the Pod are running and can automatically
restart if they fail.
```
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: example-deployment
labels:
app: example
spec:
replicas: 3
selector:
matchLabels:
app: example
template:
metadata:
labels:
app: example
spec:
containers:
- name: example-container
image: nginx:1.17.1
ports:
- containerPort: 80
```
Experiment replanning
Failure scope of PodChaos
The previous K8s manifests targeted a
single pod with the label 'app: example'.
The current manifests have changed to a
Deployment with 3 replicas, all having the
same label 'app: example'. The original
chaos experiment aimed to simulate a pod
failure, which can still be achieved by
targeting one of the pods in the
Deployment. Therefore, the scope of the
fault injection should remain the same,
targeting pods with the label 'app:
example' in the 'default' namespace. This
ensures that the experiment's goal of
simulating a pod failure is maintained,
even with the change from a single pod to a
Deployment with multiple replicas.
Failure scope of NetworkChaos
The previous K8s manifests had a single
pod, and the NetworkChaos was targeting all
pods with the label 'app: example' in the
'default' namespace. The current manifests
have been updated to a Deployment with 3
replicas, but the label 'app: example' and
the namespace 'default' remain the same.
Therefore, the scope of the fault injection
should remain unchanged, as it will now
target all pods created by the Deployment,
which aligns with the original goal of the
chaos experiment to test the system's
behavior under network stress.
VaC script for steady state #1
The previous unit test targets a Pod
resource named 'example-pod'. In the
reconfigured manifests, the Pod has been
replaced by a Deployment named
'example-deployment' with 3
replicas. This change means that the unit
test should now target the Deployment
instead of a single Pod. The test should
verify that at least one of the Pods
created by the Deployment is
running at least 90% of the time.
Therefore, the unit test requires
modification to account for the change from
a Pod to a Deployment with multiple
replicas. The test should be updated to
check the status of the Pods created by the
Deployment, ensuring that the steady state
is maintained by the entire redundancy.
```
import os
import time
import argparse
from kubernetes import client, config
from unittest_base import K8sAPIBase
class
TestDeploymentRunningState(K8sAPIBase):
def __init__(self):
super().__init__()
def check_deployment_pods_status(
self, namespace, deployment_name
):
try:
pods = self.v1.list_namespaced_pod(
namespace=namespace,
label_selector=f'app={deployment_name}'
).items
running_pods = [pod for pod in pods
if pod.status.phase == 'Running']
return len(running_pods) > 0
except client.exceptions.ApiException
as e:
print(f"Exception when calling
CoreV1Api->list_namespaced_pod: {e}")
return False
def test_deployment_running_state(self,
duration):
namespace = 'default'
deployment_name = 'example'
running_count = 0
# Check the deployment pods status
every second for the specified duration
for _ in range(duration):
if self.check_deployment_pods_status(
namespace, deployment_name):
running_count += 1
time.sleep(1)
# Calculate the running percentage
running_percentage = (running_count /
duration) * 100
# Assert that the running percentage is
at least 90%
assert running_percentage >= 90,
f"Deployment '{deployment_name}'
running percentage is below threshold:
81
===== PAGE 82 =====
{running_percentage}%"
print(f"Deployment '{deployment_name}'
running status checked {duration}
times. Running percentage:
{running_percentage}%.")
def main():
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(
description='Test if a deployment has
at least one pod running at least 90%
of the time.')
parser.add_argument(
'--duration', type=int, default=5,
help='Duration to check the deployment
pods status in seconds.')
args = parser.parse_args()
test = TestDeploymentRunningState()
test.test_deployment_running_state(
args.duration)
if __name__ == '__main__':
main()
```
VaC script for steady state #2
The target of the unit test is the service
availability, which is associated with the
Service resource in the Kubernetes
manifests. In the previous and reconfigured
manifests, the Service resource has not
changed, so the endpoint and the service
configuration remain the same. The unit
test checks the availability of the service
by sending HTTP requests to the service
endpoint and verifying the response status.
Since the Service resource has not been
modified, the unit test does not require
any changes. The reconfiguration of the Pod
to a Deployment with 3 replicas is intended
to improve the system's ability to meet the
availability threshold, but it does not
affect the unit test itself, which remains
valid for checking the service's
availability.
Summary of the completed CE cycle
The Chaos Engineering cycle begins with
understanding the user inputs, which
include Kubernetes manifests for a Pod and
a Service. The Pod manifest defines a
single Nginx container with a restart
policy of 'Never', and the Service manifest
exposes this Pod on port 80. Two main
resiliency issues are identified: the Pod's
restart policy and the lack of redundancy
due to a single Pod deployment.
The hypothesis for the experiment is that
the system's steady states will be
maintained even when faults are injected.
Two steady states are defined: the Pod
should be running at least 90% of the time,
and the Service should have 99.9%
availability with a response status of 200.
The fault scenario simulates a cyber attack
using Chaos Mesh, injecting PodChaos to
kill the Pod and NetworkChaos to introduce
network latency. The experiment is divided
into three phases: pre-validation,
fault-injection, and post-validation, each
with specific tasks and durations to verify
the system's behavior under stress.
In the first experiment attempt, the system
fails to maintain the steady states during
and after the fault injection. The Pod does
not restart due to its 'Never' restart
policy, and the Service becomes
unavailable, confirming the identified
issues. Recommendations include changing
the Pod's restart policy and implementing a
Deployment for redundancy.
After modifying the system by replacing the
Pod with a Deployment, the second experime
attempt is successful. All unit tests pass,
indicating that the system maintains its
steady states even when faults are
injected, demonstrating improved resilience.
E.2 Reviews
Review by Engineer A
Overall: 4
- This is a critical issue because if the
Pod fails, it will not restart, leading to
potential downtime. If the single Pod
fails, the service will be unavailable.
- After modifying the system by replacing
the Pod with a Deployment, the second
experiment attempt is successful. All unit
tests pass, indicating that the system
maintains its steady states even when
faults are injected, demonstrating improved
resilience.
- However, it did not provide significant
insights for future cycles, such as testing
different replica counts, resource usage or
cost efficiency.
Hypothesis: 4
The hypothesis for the experiment is that
the system's steady states will be
maintained even when faults are injected.
Two steady states are defined: the Pod
should be running at least 90\% of the
time, and the Service should have 99.9\%
availability with a response status of 200.
- Steady state #1: example-pod-running
+ The first issue to address is the Pod's
restart policy set to 'Never'. This is a
critical issue because if the Pod fails,
it will not restart, leading to potential
downtime.
- Steady state #2:
example-service-availability
+ The next issue to address is the 'Single
Pod Deployment', which is related to the
lack of redundancy. This is a significant
issue because if the single Pod fails, the
service will be unavailable.
Did not explore more failure scenarios,
example: simultaneous Pod failure or
network latency. (Only Failure senario:
Cyber Attack)
Experiment: 4
The experiment plan correctly serves to
validate the hypothesis
Time schedule
- Total experiment time: 60s
- Pre-validation Phase : 15s
+ We need to ensure that the system is in
its expected steady state before we
proceed with fault injection. Conduct two
unit tests to verify the steady states:
one for the pod's running status and
another for the service's availability.
- Fault-injection Phase: 30s
+ Simulate a Cyber Attack by injecting two
types of faults: PodChaos and NetworkChaos.
+ First, inject the PodChaos fault to
simulate a pod failure. . This fault will
be injected at the start of the phase
(grace period of 0s) and will last for 10
seconds.
+ Next, inject the NetworkChaos fault to
82
===== PAGE 83 =====
simulate network latency. This fault will
start at 10 seconds (aer the PodChaos
fault ends) and will last for 20 seconds.
+ By staggering the faults and aligning
the unit tests with the fault durations,
we can effectively observe the system's
behavior under each fault condition and
verify if the steady states are maintained.
- Post-validation Phase: 15s
+ Pod must be running for the service to
be available.
Additionally, it is set up considering an
actual failure scenario.
- The fault scenario simulates a Cyber
Attack using Chaos Mesh, injecting PodChaos
to kill the Pod and NetworkChaos to
introduce network latency.
Analysis: 4
The analysis reports correct and meaningful
information:
- Pod Restart Policy and Single Pod
Deployment: The
'fault-unittest-example-pod-running' test
failed because the Pod was not found after
the PodChaos fault was injected. This is
directly related to the Pod's restart
policy set to 'Never' in the nginx/pod.yaml
manifest. When the Pod was killed, it did
not restart, leading to a 404 error when
attempting to read the Pod's status. This
confirms the identified issue #0 (Pod
Restart Policy) and issue #1 (Single Pod
Deployment), where the lack of redundancy
and automatic recovery mechanisms resulted
in the Pod being unavailable.
- Service Availability: The
'fault-unittest-example-service-availability'
test failed due to connection refusals,
indicating that the service was
unavailable. This failure is a consequence
of the Pod being killed and not restarting,
as the Service relies on the Pod to handle
requests. The Service's selector in
nginx/service.yaml targets Pods with the
label 'app: example', and with the Pod
being down, there were no endpoints
available to serve the requests, leading to
the connection refused errors.
- Post-Validation Failures: Both
'post-unittest-example-pod-running' and
'post-unittest-example-service-availability'
tests failed, showing that the system did
not recover to its steady state after the
fault injection. The Pod remained
unavailable, and consequently, the Service
could not respond to HTTP requests. This
further highlights the critical impact of
the Pod's restart policy and the lack of
redundancy.
Lacked detailed performance impact
analysis, such as checking if the Pod was
running at least 90\% of the time and if
the Service maintained 99.9\% availability.
Meaningful insights for the improvement
- Pod Restart Policy: Change the Pod's
restart policy from 'Never' to 'Always' or
'OnFailure' to ensure that the Pod
automatically restarts if it fails. This
will help maintain the Pod's availability
and reduce downtime.
- Redundancy and Scalability: Implement a
Deployment or ReplicaSet to manage the Pod.
This will provide redundancy by running
multiple replicas of the Pod, ensuring that
the Service remains available even if one
Pod fails.
- Service Resilience: Consider using a
LoadBalancer or Ingress to manage traffic
to multiple Pods, enhancing the system's
ability to handle failures and maintain
service availability.
Improvement: 5
Successfully fixed issues on the first
attempt and enhanced resiliency and
satisfied the hypothesis.
- In the first experiment attempt, the
system fails to maintain the steady states
during and after the fault injection. The
Pod does not restart due to its 'Never'
restart policy, and the Service becomes
unavailable, confirming the identified
issues.
- After modifying the system by replacing
the Pod with a Deployment, the second
experime attempt is successful. All unit
tests pass, indicating that the system
maintains its steady states even when
faults are injected, demonstrating improved
resilience.
Review by Engineer B (Translated)
Overall: 5
Reason for positive evaluation:
- The issue where the system failed to
recover when a Pod went down was resolved.
Meaningful insights and recommendations
were obtained regarding service resilience.
The resolution of the system recovery issue
and the insights gained on resilience
contribute to a high evaluation.
Hypothesis: 4
Reason for positive evaluation:
- The summaries of each manifest file are
accurate.
- The resiliency issues in the manifests
are appropriately pointed out.
- The content of the image ('nginx') is
explained.
- The assumed purpose of each manifest
file's deployment is inferred correctly.
- The steady-state conditions, such as Pod
uptime and HTTP request responsiveness, are
properly identified.
- Service availability is considered with a
commercial-grade mindset (e.g., 99.9%
uptime), and HTTP response status code 200
is specified.
Room for improvement:
- The API version information in
'nginx/service.yaml' may not be necessary.
- Since 'nginx:1.17.1' is not the latest
version, it would be better if there were
comments expressing concern about potential
vulnerabilities.
- Furthermore, incorporating tests from a
security vulnerability perspective would be
desirable.
The evaluation is high because the manifest
summaries and resiliency issue
identifications are appropriate. However,
it is not a perfect score due to the
inclusion of unnecessary information and
the lack of comments on the outdated image.
Experiment: 5
Reason for positive evaluation:
- Pod status and service availability were
checked during pre-validation, fault
injection, and post-validation phases.
The evaluation is high because the test was
conducted within the one-minute time
constraint, while confirming Pod status and
service availability.
Analysis: 5
Reason for positive evaluation:
83
===== PAGE 84 =====
- The occurrence of 404 errors after the
fault and the lack of recovery were
accurately analyzed.
- The three proposed recommendations are
meaningful for improving resilience.
The evaluation is high because the
post-fault situation was accurately
analyzed, and valuable suggestions for
enhancing resilience were provided.
Improvement: 5
Reason for positive evaluation:
- Replacing the Pod with a Deployment
enables automatic restarts.
- Setting the number of replicas to 3
provides redundancy.
The evaluation is high because improvements
were made by replacing the Pod with a
Deployment and introducing redundancy.
Review by GPT-4o
Overall: 4
The Chaos Engineering cycle effectively
identified and addressed critical issues in
the system, leading to significant
improvements in resilience.
Strengths:
- Comprehensive approach to identifying and
addressing system weaknesses.
- Successfully improved system resilience
through targeted improvements.
- Provided meaningful insights for future
cycles.
Weaknesses:
- The cycle could have explored additional
fault scenarios for a more comprehensive
assessment.
- Limited exploration of potential
secondary effects of the faults.
- The impact of improvements on overall
system performance was not fully quantified.
Reason for the score:
The cycle fixed critical issues in the
system and offered meaningful insights for
the next cycle, though it could have been
more comprehensive in its exploration of
potential vulnerabilities.
Hypothesis: 4
The hypothesis aimed to ensure that the
system maintains its steady states even
when faults are injected, focusing on pod
availability and service responsiveness.
Strengths:
- Clearly defined steady states for both
pod and service availability.
- Utilized measurable outputs to verify
steady states.
- Addressed critical issues like pod
restart policy and single pod deployment.
Weaknesses:
- The hypothesis could have been more
specific about the expected behavior under
each fault condition.
- Lacked consideration for potential
cascading failures beyond the immediate
faults.
- Did not account for external dependencies
that might affect the system's steady
states.
Reason for the score:
The hypothesis was relevant and meaningful,
addressing critical issues in the system.
It led to system improvement and provided
insights for future cycles.
Experiment: 4
The experiment was well-structured, with
clear phases for pre-validation,
fault-injection, and post-validation, all
within a 60-second timeframe.
Strengths:
- Efficient time allocation across phases.
- Comprehensive fault-injection plan using
PodChaos and NetworkChaos.
- Aligned unit tests with fault durations
for effective observation.
Weaknesses:
- The experiment could have included more
diverse fault scenarios to test other
potential vulnerabilities.
- Limited time for each phase might not
capture all transient issues.
- The experiment plan could have been more
detailed in terms of expected outcomes for
each fault.
Reason for the score:
The experiment plan correctly served to
validate the hypothesis and was set up
considering actual failure scenarios,
though it could have been more
comprehensive.
Analysis: 4
The analysis identified critical issues
related to pod restart policy and single
pod deployment, providing clear insights
and recommendations for improvement.
Strengths:
- Thorough identification of issues and
their impact on system behavior.
- Provided actionable recommendations for
system improvement.
- Highlighted the importance of redundancy
and automatic recovery mechanisms.
Weaknesses:
- The analysis could have explored
potential secondary effects of the faults.
- Lacked quantitative data on the impact of
network latency on service performance.
- Could have included a comparison with
baseline performance metrics.
Reason for the score:
The analysis reported correct and
meaningful information, providing insights
for improvement, though it could have been
more detailed in certain areas.
Improvement: 5
The improvement involved replacing the Pod
with a Deployment to provide redundancy and
ensure automatic recovery, successfully
addressing the identified issues.
Strengths:
- Successfully changed the system to
satisfy the hypothesis in the first attempt.
- Addressed both redundancy and restart
policy issues effectively.
- Improved system resilience against
similar fault scenarios.
Weaknesses:
- The improvement focused solely on the pod
configuration, potentially overlooking
other areas for enhancement.
- Could have included additional resilience
measures, such as load balancing.
- The impact of the improvement on overall
system performance was not quantified.
Reason for the score:
84
===== PAGE 85 =====
The improvement successfully changed the
system to satisfy the hypothesis in the
first attempt, addressing critical issues
effectively.
Review by Claude Sonnet 3.5
Overall: 5
This Chaos Engineering cycle effectively
identified and addressed critical
resiliency issues in the system. It
progressed from a well-defined hypothesis
through a comprehensive experiment,
insightful analysis, and successful
improvement, resulting in a more resilient
system.
Strengths:
- Clear progression through all phases of
the Chaos Engineering cycle
- Effective use of Chaos Mesh for fault
injection and automated testing
- Successful identification and resolution
of critical system vulnerabilities
- Demonstrable improvement in system
resilience, as evidenced by the second
experiment run
Weaknesses:
- Limited scope of improvements, focusing
mainly on Pod management
- Potential for more comprehensive testing
of network-related issues
- Short duration of experiment phases may
limit the depth of insights gained
Reason for the score:
The cycle fixes critical issues in the
system, specifically addressing the Pod
restart policy and lack of redundancy. It
offers meaningful insights for future
improvements, particularly in the areas of
network resilience and more comprehensive
testing strategies.
Hypothesis: 4
The hypothesis aims to verify that the
system maintains its steady states even
when subjected to a simulated cyber attack.
Two steady states are defined: the
'example-pod' running status and the
'example-service' availability.
Strengths:
- Clear definition of steady states with
measurable outputs
- Appropriate thresholds set for each
steady state (90\% for pod running, 99.9\%
for service availability)
- Well-defined fault scenario simulating a
cyber attack using PodChaos and NetworkChaos
- Use of both Kubernetes API and k6 for
comprehensive testing
Weaknesses:
- The hypothesis doesn't explicitly address
the known system weaknesses (restart policy
and single pod deployment)
- The steady states don't directly test the
system's ability to recover from failures
- The hypothesis doesn't consider potential
cascading effects of the simulated cyber
attack
Reason for the score:
The hypothesis is relevant to the system
and meaningful, addressing key aspects of
system resilience. It leads to system
improvement by revealing critical
vulnerabilities. However, it could be more
comprehensive in addressing known
weaknesses and recovery capabilities.
Experiment: 4
The experiment is divided into three
phases: pre-validation (15s),
fault-injection (30s), and post-validation
(15s). It uses Chaos Mesh to inject
PodChaos and NetworkChaos faults,
simulating a cyber attack. Unit tests are
conducted before, during, and after fault
injection to verify steady states.
Strengths:
- Well-structured experiment with clear
phases and timing
- Use of both PodChaos and NetworkChaos to
simulate a complex attack scenario
- Concurrent execution of faults and unit
tests during fault injection
- Use of Chaos Mesh Workflow for automated
experiment execution
Weaknesses:
- Short duration for pre and
post-validation phases may not capture all
system behaviors
- No explicit test for system recovery time
after fault injection
- Limited variation in fault parameters
(e.g., only one type of network chaos)
Reason for the score:
The experiment plan correctly serves to
validate the hypothesis and is set up
considering an actual failure scenario
(cyber attack). It effectively uses Chaos
Mesh to inject faults and conduct tests
concurrently, providing a comprehensive
view of system behavior under stress.
Analysis: 5
The analysis identified critical issues in
the system's configuration, particularly
the Pod's restart policy and lack of
redundancy. It correctly linked these
issues to the failures observed during the
experiment, providing clear insights into
the system's vulnerabilities.
Strengths:
- Detailed examination of each failed unit
test
- Clear connection between observed
failures and known system weaknesses
- Identification of cascading effects (Pod
failure leading to service unavailability)
- Specific, actionable recommendations for
improvement
Weaknesses:
- Limited analysis of the system's behavior
during the NetworkChaos fault
- No quantitative analysis of failure rates
or downtime duration
- Lack of discussion on potential false
positives or negatives in the test results
Reason for the score:
The analysis reports correct and meaningful
information, clearly linking experiment
results to system weaknesses. It provides
valuable insights for improvement,
including specific recommendations to
enhance system resilience.
Improvement: 5
The improvement phase replaced the single
Pod definition with a Deployment,
addressing both the restart policy issue
and the lack of redundancy. This change
successfully resolved the vulnerabilities
identified in the analysis.
Strengths:
- Direct address of the two main issues
(restart policy and single pod deployment)
85
===== PAGE 86 =====
- Use of a Deployment with multiple
replicas for improved redundancy
- Simplicity of the solution, requiring
changes to only one manifest
- Successful resolution of all failed unit
tests in the second experiment run
Weaknesses:
- No explicit mention of changing the
restart policy (though implicitly addressed
by using a Deployment)
- No additional improvements to address
potential network issues identified by
NetworkChaos
Reason for the score:
The improvement successfully changes the
system to satisfy the hypothesis in the
first attempt. All unit tests passed in the
second experiment run, demonstrating the
effectiveness of the changes made.
Review by Gemini 1.5 Pro
Overall: 5
This Chaos Engineering cycle effectively
identifies and addresses critical
resiliency issues in the system. The cycle
demonstrates a clear understanding of the
system's weaknesses and utilizes
appropriate tools and techniques to
validate the hypothesis and implement
improvements. The cycle is well-documented
and provides valuable insights for future
iterations.
Strengths:
- Clear identification of resiliency issues.
- Well-defined hypothesis and experiment
plan.
- Effective use of Chaos Mesh for fault
injection.
- Accurate analysis of experiment results.
- Successful implementation of improvements.
Weaknesses:
- The cycle could benefit from more
comprehensive monitoring and data
collection during the experiment. Gathering
more data on resource utilization, error
rates, and other relevant metrics would
provide a more complete understanding of
the system's behavior under stress.
- The cycle could be more robust by
exploring a wider range of fault scenarios.
While the chosen faults are relevant,
considering other potential failures would
provide a more comprehensive assessment of
the system's resilience.
- The cycle could be more iterative by
incorporating more feedback loops between
the analysis and improvement phases. This
would allow for more fine-tuning of the
improvements and ensure that the system
meets the desired resilience goals.
- The cycle could be more automated by
integrating the Chaos Engineering
experiments into the CI/CD pipeline. This
would allow for continuous resilience
testing and ensure that any changes to the
system do not introduce new vulnerabilities.
Reason for the score:
The cycle fixes critical issues in the
system and offers meaningful insights for
the next cycle according to the experiments
conducted
Hypothesis: 4
The hypothesis "The steady states of the
system are maintained even when the fault
scenario occurs" is well-defined and
relevant to the identified resiliency
issues. The steady states,
'example-pod-running' and
'example-service-availability', directly
address the problems of the Pod's restart
policy and the lack of redundancy.
Strengths:
- Clearly defines two relevant steady
states.
- Directly addresses the identified
resiliency issues.
- Provides measurable outputs for each
steady state.
- Sets specific thresholds for each steady
state.
Weaknesses:
- The hypothesis could be more specific
about the expected behavior under the fault
scenario. While it states that steady
states should be maintained, it doesn't
quantify the acceptable deviation from the
normal operating conditions.
- The hypothesis could benefit from
considering additional steady states, such
as resource utilization or error rates, to
provide a more comprehensive view of the
system's health.
- The description of the steady states
could be more concise.
- The hypothesis doesn't explicitly mention
the expected duration of the steady state
deviations during the fault injection.
Reason for the score:
The hypothesis is relevant to the system
and meaningful. Additionally, the
hypothesis leads to system improvement and
offers meaningful insights for the next
cycle.
Experiment: 4
The experiment plan is well-structured and
effectively targets the identified
weaknesses. The three-phase approach
(pre-validation, fault-injection,
post-validation) is appropriate, and the
time allocation for each phase is
reasonable. The use of Chaos Mesh to inject
faults is a good choice, and the selected
faults (PodChaos and NetworkChaos) are
relevant to the scenario.
Strengths:
- Well-defined three-phase structure.
- Appropriate time allocation for each
phase.
- Relevant fault selection (PodChaos and
NetworkChaos).
- Use of Chaos Mesh for automated fault
injection.
- Clear description of the fault injection
sequence and unit tests.
Weaknesses:
- The experiment plan could benefit from
more detailed monitoring metrics beyond
just the steady states. Collecting data on
resource utilization, error rates, and
other relevant metrics would provide a more
comprehensive understanding of the system's
behavior under stress.
- The experiment plan could be more robust
by including a wider range of fault
scenarios. While the chosen faults are
relevant, exploring other potential
failures would provide a more complete
picture of the system's resilience.
- The experiment plan could be improved by
adding more details about the expected
results of the unit tests during the fault
injection phase. This would make it easier
to interpret the results and draw
conclusions about the system's behavior.
86
===== PAGE 87 =====
- The experiment plan could be more
specific about the criteria for determining
whether the system has returned to its
steady state in the post-validation phase.
Reason for the score:
The experiment plan correctly serves to
validate the hypothesis. Additionally, it
is set up considering an actual failure
scenario.
Analysis: 5
The analysis accurately identifies the root
causes of the failed unit tests and
provides specific recommendations for
improvement. The analysis correctly
correlates the observed failures with the
Pod's restart policy and the lack of
redundancy.
Strengths:
- Accurate identification of the root
causes of failures.
- Clear correlation between failures and
the identified resiliency issues.
- Specific and actionable recommendations
for improvement.
- Well-organized and easy to understand.
Weaknesses:
- The analysis could be more data-driven.
While it describes the failures, it doesn't
provide specific metrics or data points to
support the observations. Including data
from the unit tests and Chaos Mesh would
strengthen the analysis.
- The analysis could benefit from a more
in-depth discussion of the system's
behavior during the fault injection.
Describing how the system responded to the
faults and the specific impact on the
steady states would provide more valuable
insights.
- The analysis could be more comprehensive
by considering the potential impact of the
failures on downstream services or users.
While it focuses on the system under test,
considering the broader context would
provide a more complete picture of the
impact of the failures.
- The analysis could be improved by
including a discussion of the limitations
of the experiment and potential sources of
error.
Reason for the score:
The analysis reports correct and meaningful
information. Additioanlly, it provides some
meaningful insights for the improvement.
Improvement: 5
The improvement successfully addresses the
identified issues by replacing the Pod with
a Deployment. This change introduces
redundancy and automatic restart
capabilities, directly addressing the
weaknesses highlighted in the analysis. The
improvement is implemented efficiently and
effectively.
Strengths:
- Directly addresses the identified
weaknesses.
- Introduces redundancy and automatic
restart capabilities.
- Effective and efficient implementation.
- Uses a Deployment for robust Pod
management.
Weaknesses:
- The improvement could be more
comprehensive by addressing other potential
weaknesses in the system, such as resource
limits or network policies. While the
implemented change is significant,
considering other aspects of resilience
would further strengthen the system.
- The improvement could be more robust by
including automated testing to verify the
changes. While the subsequent experiment
confirms the improvement, incorporating
automated tests would provide more
confidence in the changes.
- The improvement could be more flexible by
allowing for configuration of the number of
replicas. While three replicas are a good
starting point, providing a way to adjust
the replica count based on the system's
needs would be beneficial.
- The improvement could be more transparent
by providing more details about the
decision-making process behind the chosen
solution. Explaining why a Deployment was
chosen and the rationale behind the
configuration would be helpful.
Reason for the score:
The improvement succesully changes the
system to satisfy the hypothesis in the
first attempt.
E.3 SockShop
E.3.1 Inputs
Instructions
- The Chaos-Engineering experiment must be
completed within 1 minute.
- When using k6 in steady-state definition,
always select a request URL from the
following options (other requests are
invalid):
1. http://front-end.sock-shop.svc.cluster.
local/
2. http://front-end.sock-shop.svc.cluster.
local/catalogue?size=10
3. http://front-end.sock-shop.svc.cluster.
local/detail.html?id=<ID>
Replace <ID> with an available ID: [03
fef6ac-1896-4ce8-bd69-b798f85c6e0b, 3395
a43e-2d88-40de-b95f-e00e1502085b, 510
a0d7e-8e83-4193-b483-e27e09ddc34d, 808
a2de1-1aaa-4c25-a9b9-6612e8f29a38, 819
e1fbf-8b7e-4f6d-811f-693534916a8b, 837
ab141-399e-4c1f-9abc-bace40296bac,
a0a4f044-b040-410d-8ead-4de0446aec7e,
d3588630-ad8e-49df-bbd7-3167f7efb246,
zzz4f044-b040-410d-8ead-4de0446aec7e]
4. http://front-end.sock-shop.svc.cluster.
local/category/
5. http://front-end.sock-shop.svc.cluster.
local/category?tags=<TAG>
Replace <TAG> with an available tag: [
magic, action, blue, brown, black, sport,
formal, red, green, skin, geek]
6. http://front-end.sock-shop.svc.cluster.
local/basket.html
skaffold.yaml
apiVersion: skaffold/v3
kind: Config
metadata:
name: sock-shop-app
manifests:
rawYaml:
- manifests/00-sock-shop-ns.yaml
- manifests/01-carts-dep.yaml
- manifests/02-carts-svc.yaml
- manifests/03-carts-db-dep.yaml
- manifests/04-carts-db-svc.yaml
- manifests/05-catalogue-dep.yaml
87
===== PAGE 88 =====
- manifests/06-catalogue-svc.yaml
- manifests/07-catalogue-db-dep.yaml
- manifests/08-catalogue-db-svc.yaml
- manifests/09-front-end-dep.yaml
- manifests/10-front-end-svc.yaml
- manifests/11-orders-dep.yaml
- manifests/12-orders-svc.yaml
- manifests/13-orders-db-dep.yaml
- manifests/14-orders-db-svc.yaml
- manifests/15-payment-dep.yaml
- manifests/16-payment-svc.yaml
- manifests/17-queue-master-dep.yaml
- manifests/18-queue-master-svc.yaml
- manifests/19-rabbitmq-dep.yaml
- manifests/20-rabbitmq-svc.yaml
- manifests/21-session-db-dep.yaml
- manifests/22-session-db-svc.yaml
- manifests/23-shipping-dep.yaml
- manifests/24-shipping-svc.yaml
- manifests/25-user-dep.yaml
- manifests/26-user-svc.yaml
- manifests/27-user-db-dep.yaml
- manifests/28-user-db-svc.yaml
manifests/00-sock-shop-ns.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
name: sock-shop
manifests/01-carts-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: carts
labels:
name: carts
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: carts
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: carts
spec:
containers:
- name: carts
image: weaveworksdemos/carts:0.4.8
env:
- name: JAVA_OPTS
value: -Xms64m -Xmx128m -XX:+
UseG1GC -Djava.security.egd=file
:/dev/urandom -Dspring.zipkin.
enabled=false
resources:
limits:
cpu: 300m
memory: 500Mi
requests:
cpu: 100m
memory: 200Mi
ports:
- containerPort: 80
securityContext:
runAsNonRoot: true
runAsUser: 10001
capabilities:
drop:
- all
add:
- NET_BIND_SERVICE
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
volumeMounts:
- mountPath: /tmp
name: tmp-volume
volumes:
- name: tmp-volume
emptyDir:
medium: Memory
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
manifests/02-carts-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: carts
annotations:
prometheus.io/scrape: 'true'
labels:
name: carts
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 80
targetPort: 80
selector:
name: carts
manifests/03-carts-db-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: carts-db
labels:
name: carts-db
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: carts-db
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: carts-db
spec:
containers:
- name: carts-db
image: mongo
ports:
- name: mongo
containerPort: 27017
securityContext:
capabilities:
drop:
- all
add:
- CHOWN
- SETGID
- SETUID
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
volumeMounts:
- mountPath: /tmp
name: tmp-volume
volumes:
- name: tmp-volume
emptyDir:
medium: Memory
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
88
===== PAGE 89 =====
manifests/04-carts-db-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: carts-db
labels:
name: carts-db
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 27017
targetPort: 27017
selector:
name: carts-db
manifests/05-catalogue-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: catalogue
labels:
name: catalogue
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: catalogue
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: catalogue
spec:
containers:
- name: catalogue
image: weaveworksdemos/catalogue
:0.3.5
command: ["/app"]
args:
- -port=80
resources:
limits:
cpu: 200m
memory: 200Mi
requests:
cpu: 100m
memory: 100Mi
ports:
- containerPort: 80
securityContext:
runAsNonRoot: true
runAsUser: 10001
capabilities:
drop:
- all
add:
- NET_BIND_SERVICE
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
livenessProbe:
httpGet:
path: /health
port: 80
initialDelaySeconds: 300
periodSeconds: 3
readinessProbe:
httpGet:
path: /health
port: 80
initialDelaySeconds: 180
periodSeconds: 3
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
manifests/06-catalogue-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: catalogue
annotations:
prometheus.io/scrape: 'true'
labels:
name: catalogue
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 80
targetPort: 80
selector:
name: catalogue
manifests/06-catalogue-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: catalogue
annotations:
prometheus.io/scrape: 'true'
labels:
name: catalogue
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 80
targetPort: 80
selector:
name: catalogue
manifests/07-catalogue-db-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: catalogue-db
labels:
name: catalogue-db
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: catalogue-db
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: catalogue-db
spec:
containers:
- name: catalogue-db
image: weaveworksdemos/catalogue-db
:0.3.0
env:
- name: MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD
value: fake_password
- name: MYSQL_DATABASE
value: socksdb
ports:
- name: mysql
containerPort: 3306
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
89
===== PAGE 90 =====
manifests/08-catalogue-db-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: catalogue-db
labels:
name: catalogue-db
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 3306
targetPort: 3306
selector:
name: catalogue-db
manifests/09-front-end-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: front-end
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 1
selector:
matchLabels:
name: front-end
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: front-end
spec:
containers:
- name: front-end
image: weaveworksdemos/front-end
:0.3.12
resources:
limits:
cpu: 300m
memory: 1000Mi
requests:
cpu: 100m
memory: 300Mi
ports:
- containerPort: 8079
env:
- name: SESSION_REDIS
value: "true"
securityContext:
runAsNonRoot: true
runAsUser: 10001
capabilities:
drop:
- all
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
livenessProbe:
httpGet:
path: /
port: 8079
initialDelaySeconds: 300
periodSeconds: 3
readinessProbe:
httpGet:
path: /
port: 8079
initialDelaySeconds: 30
periodSeconds: 3
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
manifests/10-front-end-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: front-end
annotations:
prometheus.io/scrape: 'true'
labels:
name: front-end
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
type: NodePort
ports:
- port: 80
targetPort: 8079
nodePort: 30001
selector:
name: front-end
manifests/11-orders-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: orders
labels:
name: orders
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: orders
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: orders
spec:
containers:
- name: orders
image: weaveworksdemos/orders:0.4.7
env:
- name: JAVA_OPTS
value: -Xms64m -Xmx128m -XX:+
UseG1GC -Djava.security.egd=file
:/dev/urandom -Dspring.zipkin.
enabled=false
resources:
limits:
cpu: 500m
memory: 500Mi
requests:
cpu: 100m
memory: 300Mi
ports:
- containerPort: 80
securityContext:
runAsNonRoot: true
runAsUser: 10001
capabilities:
drop:
- all
add:
- NET_BIND_SERVICE
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
volumeMounts:
- mountPath: /tmp
name: tmp-volume
volumes:
- name: tmp-volume
emptyDir:
medium: Memory
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
90
===== PAGE 91 =====
manifests/12-orders-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: orders
annotations:
prometheus.io/scrape: 'true'
labels:
name: orders
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 80
targetPort: 80
selector:
name: orders
manifests/13-orders-db-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: orders-db
labels:
name: orders-db
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: orders-db
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: orders-db
spec:
containers:
- name: orders-db
image: mongo
ports:
- name: mongo
containerPort: 27017
securityContext:
capabilities:
drop:
- all
add:
- CHOWN
- SETGID
- SETUID
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
volumeMounts:
- mountPath: /tmp
name: tmp-volume
volumes:
- name: tmp-volume
emptyDir:
medium: Memory
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
manifests/14-orders-db-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: orders-db
labels:
name: orders-db
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 27017
targetPort: 27017
selector:
name: orders-db
manifests/15-payment-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: payment
labels:
name: payment
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: payment
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: payment
spec:
containers:
- name: payment
image: weaveworksdemos/payment:0.4.3
resources:
limits:
cpu: 200m
memory: 200Mi
requests:
cpu: 99m
memory: 100Mi
ports:
- containerPort: 80
securityContext:
runAsNonRoot: true
runAsUser: 10001
capabilities:
drop:
- all
add:
- NET_BIND_SERVICE
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
livenessProbe:
httpGet:
path: /health
port: 80
initialDelaySeconds: 300
periodSeconds: 3
readinessProbe:
httpGet:
path: /health
port: 80
initialDelaySeconds: 180
periodSeconds: 3
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
manifests/16-payment-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: payment
annotations:
prometheus.io/scrape: 'true'
labels:
name: payment
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 80
targetPort: 80
selector:
91
===== PAGE 92 =====
name: payment
manifests/17-queue-master-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: queue-master
labels:
name: queue-master
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: queue-master
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: queue-master
spec:
containers:
- name: queue-master
image: weaveworksdemos/queue-master
:0.3.1
env:
- name: JAVA_OPTS
value: -Xms64m -Xmx128m -XX:+
UseG1GC -Djava.security.egd=file
:/dev/urandom -Dspring.zipkin.
enabled=false
resources:
limits:
cpu: 300m
memory: 500Mi
requests:
cpu: 100m
memory: 300Mi
ports:
- containerPort: 80
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
manifests/18-queue-master-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: queue-master
annotations:
prometheus.io/scrape: 'true'
labels:
name: queue-master
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 80
targetPort: 80
selector:
name: queue-master
manifests/19-rabbitmq-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: rabbitmq
labels:
name: rabbitmq
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: rabbitmq
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: rabbitmq
annotations:
prometheus.io/scrape: "false"
spec:
containers:
- name: rabbitmq
image: rabbitmq:3.6.8-management
ports:
- containerPort: 15672
name: management
- containerPort: 5672
name: rabbitmq
securityContext:
capabilities:
drop:
- all
add:
- CHOWN
- SETGID
- SETUID
- DAC_OVERRIDE
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
- name: rabbitmq-exporter
image: kbudde/rabbitmq-exporter
ports:
- containerPort: 9090
name: exporter
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
manifests/20-rabbitmq-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: rabbitmq
annotations:
prometheus.io/scrape: 'true'
prometheus.io/port: '9090'
labels:
name: rabbitmq
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 5672
name: rabbitmq
targetPort: 5672
- port: 9090
name: exporter
targetPort: exporter
protocol: TCP
selector:
name: rabbitmq
manifests/21-session-db-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: session-db
labels:
name: session-db
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: session-db
template:
metadata:
92
===== PAGE 93 =====
labels:
name: session-db
annotations:
prometheus.io.scrape: "false"
spec:
containers:
- name: session-db
image: redis:alpine
ports:
- name: redis
containerPort: 6379
securityContext:
capabilities:
drop:
- all
add:
- CHOWN
- SETGID
- SETUID
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
manifests/22-session-db-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: session-db
labels:
name: session-db
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 6379
targetPort: 6379
selector:
name: session-db
manifests/23-shipping-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: shipping
labels:
name: shipping
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: shipping
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: shipping
spec:
containers:
- name: shipping
image: weaveworksdemos/shipping
:0.4.8
env:
- name: ZIPKIN
value: zipkin.jaeger.svc.cluster.
local
- name: JAVA_OPTS
value: -Xms64m -Xmx128m -XX:+
UseG1GC -Djava.security.egd=file
:/dev/urandom -Dspring.zipkin.
enabled=false
resources:
limits:
cpu: 300m
memory: 500Mi
requests:
cpu: 100m
memory: 300Mi
ports:
- containerPort: 80
securityContext:
runAsNonRoot: true
runAsUser: 10001
capabilities:
drop:
- all
add:
- NET_BIND_SERVICE
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
volumeMounts:
- mountPath: /tmp
name: tmp-volume
volumes:
- name: tmp-volume
emptyDir:
medium: Memory
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
manifests/24-shipping-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: shipping
annotations:
prometheus.io/scrape: 'true'
labels:
name: shipping
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 80
targetPort: 80
selector:
name: shipping
manifests/25-user-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: user
labels:
name: user
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: user
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: user
spec:
containers:
- name: user
image: weaveworksdemos/user:0.4.7
resources:
limits:
cpu: 300m
memory: 200Mi
requests:
cpu: 100m
memory: 100Mi
ports:
- containerPort: 80
env:
- name: mongo
value: user-db:27017
securityContext:
93
===== PAGE 94 =====
runAsNonRoot: true
runAsUser: 10001
capabilities:
drop:
- all
add:
- NET_BIND_SERVICE
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
livenessProbe:
httpGet:
path: /health
port: 80
initialDelaySeconds: 300
periodSeconds: 3
readinessProbe:
httpGet:
path: /health
port: 80
initialDelaySeconds: 180
periodSeconds: 3
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
manifests/26-user-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: user
annotations:
prometheus.io/scrape: 'true'
labels:
name: user
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 80
targetPort: 80
selector:
name: user
manifests/27-user-db-dep.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: user-db
labels:
name: user-db
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: user-db
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: user-db
spec:
containers:
- name: user-db
image: weaveworksdemos/user-db:0.3.0
ports:
- name: mongo
containerPort: 27017
securityContext:
capabilities:
drop:
- all
add:
- CHOWN
- SETGID
- SETUID
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
volumeMounts:
- mountPath: /tmp
name: tmp-volume
volumes:
- name: tmp-volume
emptyDir:
medium: Memory
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
manifests/28-user-db-svc.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: user-db
labels:
name: user-db
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
ports:
# the port that this service should
serve on
- port: 27017
targetPort: 27017
selector:
name: user-db
E.3.2 CE cycle completed by C HAOS EATER
Preprocessing
Summaries of each manifest
sock-shop-2/manifests/00-sock-shop-ns.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Namespace.
- The Namespace is named 'sock-shop'.
- Namespaces are used to organize and
manage resources in a Kubernetes cluster.
sock-shop-2/manifests/01-carts-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment in
Kubernetes.
- The Deployment is named 'carts' and is
located in the 'sock-shop' namespace.
- It specifies that there should be 2
replicas of the 'carts' application running.
- The Deployment uses the Docker image
'weaveworksdemos/carts:0.4.8'.
- Environment variables are set for Java
options to optimize memory usage and disable
certain features.
- Resource limits and requests are defined,
with a maximum of 300m CPU and 500Mi
memory, and a minimum of 100m CPU and
200Mi memory.
- The application listens on port 80 within
the container.
- Security settings ensure the container
runs as a non-root user with specific
capabilities and a read-only root
filesystem.
- A temporary volume is mounted at '/tmp'
using an in-memory empty directory.
- The Deployment is scheduled to run on
nodes with the Linux operating system.
sock-shop-2/manifests/02-carts-svc.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'carts'.
- It is annotated to enable Prometheus
scraping with 'prometheus.io/scrape: true'.
- The Service is labeled with 'name: carts'.
- It is deployed in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The Service exposes port 80 and directs
traffic to the same port on the selected
pods.
94
===== PAGE 95 =====
- It uses a selector to target pods with
the label 'name: carts'.
sock-shop-2/manifests/03-carts-db-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment in
Kubernetes.
- The Deployment is named 'carts-db' and is
located in the 'sock-shop' namespace.
- It specifies that there should be 2
replicas of the 'carts-db' pod running.
- The pods are selected based on the label
'name: carts-db'.
- Each pod runs a single container using
the 'mongo' image.
- The container exposes port 27017, which
is the default port for MongoDB.
- Security settings are applied to drop all
capabilities and only add CHOWN, SETGID,
and SETUID.
- The root filesystem of the container is
set to read-only for security purposes.
- A temporary volume is mounted at '/tmp'
using an in-memory emptyDir volume.
- The pods are scheduled to run on nodes
with the operating system labeled as
'linux'.
sock-shop-2/manifests/04-carts-db-svc.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'carts-db'.
- It is labeled with 'name: carts-db'.
- The Service is created in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- It exposes port 27017 and directs traffic
to the same port on the target pods.
- The Service selects pods with the label
'name: carts-db' to route traffic to them.
sock-shop-2/manifests/05-catalogue-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment in
Kubernetes.
- The Deployment is named 'catalogue' and
is part of the 'sock-shop' namespace.
- It specifies that there should be 2
replicas of the 'catalogue' application
running.
- The Deployment uses the Docker image
'weaveworksdemos/catalogue:0.3.5'.
- The application runs with the command
'/app' and listens on port 80.
- Resource limits are set to 200m CPU and
200Mi memory, with requests for 100m CPU and
100Mi memory.
- The container is configured to run as a
non-root user with user ID 10001.
- Security settings include dropping all
capabilities except 'NET_BIND_SERVICE' and
using a read-only root filesystem.
- Liveness and readiness probes are
configured to check the '/health' endpoint
on port
80, with initial delays of 300 and 180
seconds respectively.
- The Deployment is scheduled to run on
nodes with the Linux operating system.
sock-shop-2/manifests/06-catalogue-svc.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'catalogue'.
- It is annotated to enable Prometheus
scraping for monitoring purposes.
- The Service is labeled with 'name:
catalogue'.
- It is deployed in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The Service exposes port 80 and directs
traffic to the same port on the selected
pods.
- It uses a selector to target pods with
the label 'name: catalogue'.
sock-shop-2/manifests/07-catalogue-db-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment in
Kubernetes.
- The Deployment is named 'catalogue-db'.
- It is located in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The Deployment will create 2 replicas of
the pod.
- Each pod will run a container from the
image 'weaveworksdemos/catalogue-db:0.3.0'.
- The container is configured with
environment variables for MySQL, including
a root
password and database name.
- The container exposes port 3306, which is
commonly used for MySQL.
- The pods are scheduled to run on nodes
with the Linux operating system.
sock-shop-2/manifests/08-catalogue-db-svc.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'catalogue-db'.
- It is associated with the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The Service listens on port 3306 and
forwards traffic to the same port on the
target
pods.
- It uses a selector to target pods with
the label 'name: catalogue-db'.
sock-shop-2/manifests/09-front-end-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment in
Kubernetes.
- The Deployment is named 'front-end' and
is located in the 'sock-shop' namespace.
- It specifies that there should be 1
replica of the front-end application
running.
- The Deployment uses a selector to match
pods with the label 'name: front-end'.
- The pod template includes a single
container named 'front-end'.
- The container uses the image
'weaveworksdemos/front-end:0.3.12'.
- Resource limits are set for the
container: 300m CPU and 1000Mi memory.
- Resource requests are set for the
container: 100m CPU and 300Mi memory.
- The container exposes port 8079.
- An environment variable 'SESSION_REDIS'
is set to 'true'.
- Security context is configured to run the
container as a non-root user with user ID
10001.
- All Linux capabilities are dropped, and
the root filesystem is set to read-only.
- A liveness probe is configured to check
the '/' path on port 8079, with an initial
delay of 300 seconds and a period of 3
seconds.
- A readiness probe is also configured to
check the '/' path on port 8079, with an
initial delay of 30 seconds and a period
of 3 seconds.
- The node selector ensures that the pod
runs on nodes with the operating system
labeled as Linux.
sock-shop-2/manifests/10-front-end-svc.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'front-end'.
- It is located in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The Service type is 'NodePort', which
exposes the service on each Node's IP at a
static port.
- It listens on port 80 and forwards
traffic to target port 8079 on the pods.
- The nodePort is set to 30001, allowing
external access to the service.
- The Service is configured to be scraped
by Prometheus for monitoring, as indicated
by the annotation 'prometheus.io/scrape:
true'.
95
===== PAGE 96 =====
- It selects pods with the label 'name:
front-end' to route traffic to.
sock-shop-2/manifests/11-orders-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment in
Kubernetes.
- The Deployment is named 'orders' and is
located in the 'sock-shop' namespace.
- It specifies that there should be 2
replicas of the 'orders' application
running.
- The Deployment uses the
'weaveworksdemos/orders:0.4.7' Docker image
for the
container.
- Environment variables are set for Java
options to optimize memory usage and
disable certain features.
- Resource limits and requests are defined,
with a maximum of 500m CPU and 500Mi
memory, and a minimum of 100m CPU and
300Mi memory.
- The container listens on port 80.
- Security context is configured to run the
container as a non-root user with specific
capabilities and a read-only root
filesystem.
- A temporary volume is mounted at '/tmp'
using an in-memory empty directory.
- The Deployment is scheduled to run on
nodes with the Linux operating system.
sock-shop-2/manifests/12-orders-svc.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'orders'.
- It is annotated to enable Prometheus
scraping with 'prometheus.io/scrape: true'.
- The Service is labeled with 'name:
orders'.
- It is deployed in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The Service exposes port 80 and directs
traffic to the same port on the target pods.
- It uses a selector to match pods with the
label 'name: orders'.
sock-shop-2/manifests/13-orders-db-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment in
Kubernetes.
- The Deployment is named 'orders-db' and
is located in the 'sock-shop' namespace.
- It specifies 2 replicas of the
'orders-db' pod to be created.
- The pods are labeled with 'name:
orders-db' for identification and selection.
- Each pod runs a single container using
the 'mongo' image.
- The container exposes port 27017, which
is the default port for MongoDB.
- Security settings are applied to drop all
capabilities and add only CHOWN, SETGID,
and SETUID.
- The root filesystem of the container is
set to read-only for security purposes.
- A temporary volume is mounted at '/tmp'
using an in-memory emptyDir volume.
- The pods are scheduled to run on nodes
with the operating system labeled as
'linux'.
sock-shop-2/manifests/14-orders-db-svc.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'orders-db'.
- It is located in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The Service is configured to expose port
27017.
- It targets the same port (27017) on the
pods it selects.
- The Service uses a selector to match pods
with the label 'name: orders-db'.
sock-shop-2/manifests/15-payment-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment in
Kubernetes.
- The Deployment is named 'payment' and is
part of the 'sock-shop' namespace.
- It specifies that there should be 2
replicas of the 'payment' application
running.
- The Deployment uses the Docker image
'weaveworksdemos/payment:0.4.3'.
- Resource limits are set for the
container, with a maximum of 200m CPU and
200Mi
memory, and requests for 99m CPU and
100Mi memory.
- The container listens on port 80.
- Security settings ensure the container
runs as a non-root user with user ID 10001,
drops all capabilities except
'NET_BIND_SERVICE', and uses a read-only
root filesystem.
- Liveness and readiness probes are
configured to check the '/health' endpoint
on port
80, with initial delays of 300 and 180
seconds respectively, and a period of 3
seconds.
- The Deployment is scheduled to run on
nodes with the Linux operating system.
sock-shop-2/manifests/16-payment-svc.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'payment'.
- It is annotated for Prometheus scraping,
which means it is set up for monitoring.
- The Service is labeled with 'name:
payment'.
- It is deployed in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The Service exposes port 80 and directs
traffic to the same port on the selected
pods.
- The Service selects pods with the label
'name: payment'.
sock-shop-2/manifests/17-queue-master-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment in
Kubernetes.
- The Deployment is named 'queue-master'
and is located in the 'sock-shop' namespace.
- It specifies that there should be 2
replicas (instances) of the 'queue-master'
application running.
- The Deployment uses a container image
'weaveworksdemos/queue-master:0.3.1'.
- Environment variables are set for the
container, including Java options for memory
management and garbage collection.
- Resource limits and requests are defined,
with a CPU limit of 300m and memory limit
of 500Mi, and requests for 100m CPU and
300Mi memory.
- The container exposes port 80 for network
traffic.
- The Deployment is configured to run on
nodes with the Linux operating system.
sock-shop-2/manifests/18-queue-master-svc.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'queue-master'.
- It is annotated for Prometheus scraping
with 'prometheus.io/scrape: true'.
- The Service is labeled with 'name:
queue-master'.
- It is deployed in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The Service exposes port 80 and directs
traffic to the same port on the selected
pods.
- It selects pods with the label 'name:
queue-master' to route traffic to.
sock-shop-2/manifests/19-rabbitmq-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment for
96
===== PAGE 97 =====
RabbitMQ in Kubernetes.
- It is set to run in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The Deployment is named 'rabbitmq' and is
labeled accordingly.
- It specifies 2 replicas, meaning there
will be 2 instances of RabbitMQ running.
- The Deployment uses a selector to match
pods with the label 'name: rabbitmq'.
- The pod template includes two containers:
one for RabbitMQ and another for a
RabbitMQ exporter.
- The RabbitMQ container uses the image
'rabbitmq:3.6.8-management'.
- It exposes two ports: 15672 for
management and 5672 for RabbitMQ operations.
- Security context is set to drop all
capabilities and add specific ones like
CHOWN,
SETGID, SETUID, and DAC_OVERRIDE.
- The root filesystem is set to read-only
for security purposes.
- The RabbitMQ exporter container uses the
image 'kbudde/rabbitmq-exporter' and
exposes port 9090.
- The Deployment is configured to run on
nodes with the label 'beta.kubernetes.io/os:
linux'.
- Annotations are set to prevent Prometheus
from scraping metrics from this deployment.
sock-shop-2/manifests/20-rabbitmq-svc.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'rabbitmq'.
- It is annotated for Prometheus scraping
on port 9090.
- The Service is labeled with 'name:
rabbitmq'.
- It is deployed in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The Service exposes two ports: 5672 for
RabbitMQ and 9090 for an exporter.
- The protocol used for the ports is TCP.
- The Service selects pods with the label
'name: rabbitmq'.
sock-shop-2/manifests/21-session-db-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment in
Kubernetes.
- The Deployment is named 'session-db' and
is located in the 'sock-shop' namespace.
- It specifies that there should be 2
replicas of the 'session-db' pod running.
- The pods are selected based on the label
'name: session-db'.
- Each pod runs a single container using
the 'redis' image.
- The container exposes port 6379, which is
commonly used by Redis.
- Security settings are applied to drop all
capabilities and only add CHOWN, SETGID,
and SETUID, with a read-only root
filesystem for enhanced security.
- The pods are scheduled to run on nodes
with the operating system labeled as Linux.
sock-shop-2/manifests/22-session-db-svc.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'session-db'.
- It is located in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The Service is configured to expose port
6379.
- It targets the same port (6379) on the
selected pods.
- The Service uses a selector to match pods
with the label 'name: session-db'.
sock-shop-2/manifests/23-shipping-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment in
Kubernetes.
- The Deployment is named 'shipping' and is
located in the 'sock-shop' namespace.
- It specifies that there should be 2
replicas of the 'shipping' application
running.
- The Deployment uses the Docker image
'weaveworksdemos/shipping:0.4.8'.
- Environment variables are set for the
application, including 'ZIPKIN' and
'JAVA_OPTS'.
- Resource limits and requests are defined,
with limits set to 300m CPU and 500Mi
memory, and requests set to 100m CPU and
300Mi memory.
- The application listens on port 80.
- Security context is configured to run the
container as a non-root user with user ID
10001, and it drops all capabilities
except 'NET_BIND_SERVICE'.
- The root filesystem is set to be
read-only.
- A temporary volume is mounted at '/tmp',
using an in-memory emptyDir volume.
- The Deployment is scheduled to run on
nodes with the operating system labeled as
'linux'.
sock-shop-2/manifests/24-shipping-svc.yaml
- This is a Kubernetes Service manifest.
- The service is named 'shipping'.
- It is annotated for Prometheus scraping
with 'prometheus.io/scrape: true'.
- The service is labeled with 'name:
shipping'.
- It is deployed in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The service exposes port 80 and directs
traffic to the same port on the selected
pods.
- It selects pods with the label 'name:
shipping' to route traffic to.
sock-shop-2/manifests/25-user-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment in
Kubernetes.
- The Deployment is named 'user' and is
located in the 'sock-shop' namespace.
- It specifies that there should be 2
replicas of the 'user' application running.
- The Deployment uses the Docker image
'weaveworksdemos/user:0.4.7'.
- Resource limits are set for the
container: 300m CPU and 200Mi memory, with
requests
for 100m CPU and 100Mi memory.
- The container listens on port 80.
- An environment variable 'mongo' is set
with the value 'user-db:27017'.
- Security context is configured to run the
container as a non-root user with user ID
10001.
- The container has a read-only root
filesystem and drops all capabilities except
'NET_BIND_SERVICE'.
- Liveness and readiness probes are
configured to check the '/health' endpoint
on port
80.
- The liveness probe starts after 300
seconds and checks every 3 seconds.
- The readiness probe starts after 180
seconds and checks every 3 seconds.
- The Deployment is scheduled to run on
nodes with the Linux operating system.
sock-shop-2/manifests/26-user-svc.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'user'.
- It is annotated for Prometheus scraping,
which means it is set up for monitoring.
- The Service is labeled with 'name: user'.
- It is deployed in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- The Service listens on port 80 and
forwards traffic to the same port on the
selected
97
===== PAGE 98 =====
pods.
- The Service selects pods with the label
'name: user'.
sock-shop-2/manifests/27-user-db-dep.yaml
- This manifest defines a Deployment in
Kubernetes.
- The Deployment is named 'user-db' and is
located in the 'sock-shop' namespace.
- It specifies that there should be 2
replicas of the 'user-db' pod running.
- The pods are selected based on the label
'name: user-db'.
- Each pod runs a single container using
the image 'weaveworksdemos/user-db:0.3.0'.
- The container exposes port 27017, labeled
as 'mongo', which is typically used for
MongoDB.
- Security settings are applied to drop all
capabilities and only add CHOWN, SETGID,
and SETUID, with a read-only root
filesystem.
- A temporary volume is mounted at '/tmp'
using an in-memory emptyDir volume.
- The pods are scheduled to run on nodes
with the operating system labeled as
'linux'.
sock-shop-2/manifests/28-user-db-svc.yaml
- This manifest defines a Kubernetes
Service.
- The Service is named 'user-db'.
- It is labeled with 'name: user-db'.
- The Service is created in the 'sock-shop'
namespace.
- It exposes port 27017 and directs traffic
to the same port on the target pods.
- The Service selects pods with the label
'name: user-db' to route traffic to them.
Resiliency issues/weaknesses in the
manifests
Issue #0: Missing Resource Requests
- details: Pods may not get scheduled if
the cluster is under resource pressure,
leading to potential downtime.
- manifests having the issues: [
'sock-shop-2/manifests/03-carts-db-dep
.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/07-catalogue-db-dep
.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/13-orders-db-dep
.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/19-rabbitmq-dep
.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/21-session-db-dep
.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/27-user-db-dep.yaml'
]
- problematic config: The deployments for
carts-db, catalogue-db, orders-db, rabbitmq,
session-db, and user-db do not specify
resource requests.
Issue #1: Single Replica Deployment
- details: The front-end deployment has
only one replica, which can lead to
downtime if the pod fails.
- manifests having the issues:
['sock-shop-2/manifests/09-front-end-dep.yaml']
- problematic config: spec.replicas: 1
Issue #2: Missing Liveness and Readiness
Probes
- details: Without liveness and readiness
probes, Kubernetes cannot determine the
health of the containers, which may lead to
serving traffic to unhealthy pods.
- manifests having the issues: [
'sock-shop-2/manifests/01-carts-dep.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/03-carts-db-dep
.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/05-catalogue-dep
.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/07-catalogue-db-dep
.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/11-orders-dep.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/13-orders-db-dep
.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/15-payment-dep.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/17-queue-master-dep
.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/19-rabbitmq-dep
.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/21-session-db-dep
.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/23-shipping-dep
.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/25-user-dep.yaml',
'sock-shop-2/manifests/27-user-db-dep.yaml'
]
- problematic config: The deployments for
carts, carts-db, catalogue, catalogue-db,
orders, orders-db, payment, queue-master,
rabbitmq, session-db, shipping, user, and
user-db do not have liveness or readiness
probes configured.
Issue #3: Hardcoded Environment Variables
- details: Hardcoded environment variables,
such as passwords, can lead to security
vulnerabilities.
- manifests having the issues: [
'sock-shop-2/manifests/07-catalogue-db-dep
.yaml']
- problematic config: env:
MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD is hardcoded with
value: fake_password.
Application of the manifests
Thoughts:
The manifests provided are part of a
well-known microservices demo application
called 'Sock Shop'. This application is
designed to demonstrate the use of
microservices architecture and Kubernetes
orchestration. The application simulates an
e-commerce website for selling socks, with
various services such as carts, catalogue,
orders, payment, and user management. The
file names, labels, and Docker images used
in the manifests (e.g., 'weaveworksdemos')
are indicative of the Sock Shop
application, which is a common reference
application in the Kubernetes community.
Assumed application:
Sock Shop is an e-commerce application that
simulates an online sock store. It offers
users the ability to browse a catalogue of
socks, add items to a cart, place orders,
and manage user accounts. The application
is composed of multiple microservices, each
responsible for a specific function, such
as managing the product catalogue, handling
user sessions, processing payments, and
managing orders.
Summary of user instructions
- The Chaos-Engineering experiment must be
completed within 1 minute.
- When using k6 in steady-state definition,
always select a request URL from the
following options (other requests are
invalid):
1.
http://front-end.sock-shop.svc.cluster.local/
2.
http://front-end.sock-shop.svc.cluster.local/
catalogue?size=10
3.
http://front-end.sock-shop.svc.cluster.local/
detail.html?id=<ID>
Replace <ID> with an available ID:
[03fef6ac-1896-4ce8-bd69-b798f85c6e0b ,
3395a43e-2d88-40de-b95fe00e1502085b ,
510a0d7e-8e83-4193-b483-e27e09ddc34d ,
808a2de1-1aaa-4c25-a9b9-6612e8f29a38 ,
819e1fbf-8b7e-4f6d-811f-693534916a8b ,
837ab141-399e-4c1f-9abc-bace40296bac ,
98
===== PAGE 99 =====
a0a4f044-b040-410d-8ead-4de0446aec7e ,
d3588630-ad8e-49df-bbd7-3167f7efb246 ,
zzz4f044-b040-410d-8ead-4de0446aec7e ]
4.
http://front-end.sock-shop.svc.cluster.local/
category/
5.
http://front-end.sock-shop.svc.cluster.local/
category?tags=<TAG>
Replace <TAG> with an available tag: [
magic , action , blue , brown , black ,
sport , formal , red , green , skin ,
geek]
6.
http://front-end.sock-shop.svc.cluster.local/
basket.html
Steady state #1: carts-db-replicas
Description
The first issue to address is the 'Missing
Resource Requests' for the 'carts-db'
deployment. This is a critical issue
because without resource requests, the pods
may not get scheduled if the cluster is
under resource pressure, leading to
potential downtime. To ensure the system's
steady state, we need to verify that the
'carts-db' deployment maintains the
expected number of replicas, which is 2,
even under resource constraints. This can
be measured by checking the number of
running pods for the 'carts-db' deployment.
Current state inspection
To inspect the 'front-end-replica' state, I
will use the K8s API to check the number of
ready replicas for the 'front-end'
deployment in the 'sock-shop' namespace.
This is because the task involves verifying
the number of running pods, which is a
Kubernetes resource state check. The K8s
API is suitable for this purpose as it
allows us to directly query the deployment
status and ensure that the single replica
is always ready. The script will run for a
duration of 5 seconds, checking the status
every second, to ensure the deployment
maintains at least one ready replica 100%
of the time.
tool: k8s duration: 5s
Inspection script (Python)
k8s_front-end-replica.py :
```
import os
import time
import argparse
from kubernetes import client, config
def check_carts_db_replicas(
namespace='sock-shop',
deployment_name='carts-db', duration=5):
# Load Kubernetes configuration based on
the environment
if os.getenv('KUBERNETES_SERVICE_HOST'):
config.load_incluster_config()
else:
config.load_kube_config()
v1 = client.AppsV1Api()
for _ in range(duration):
try:
deployment =
v1.read_namespaced_deployment(
deployment_name, namespace)
replicas = deployment.status.replicas
ready_replicas =
deployment.status.ready_replicas
print(f"Total replicas: {replicas},
Ready replicas: {ready_replicas}")
except client.exceptions.ApiException as
e:
print(f"Exception when calling
AppsV1Api->read_namespaced_deployment:
{e}")
time.sleep(1)
if __name__ == '__main__':
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(
description='Check carts-db replicas')
parser.add_argument('--duration',
type=int, default=5, help='Duration to
check the replicas')
args = parser.parse_args()
check_carts_db_replicas(
duration=args.duration)
```
The inspection script's results (current
states) are as follows:
```
Total replicas: 2, Ready replicas: 2
Total replicas: 2, Ready replicas: 2
Total replicas: 2, Ready replicas: 2
Total replicas: 2, Ready replicas: 2
Total replicas: 2, Ready replicas: 2
```
Threshold
The steady state we are considering is the
number of replicas for the 'carts-db'
deployment. The current state shows that
there are 2 total replicas and 2 ready
replicas consistently over a period of 5
seconds. This indicates that the system is
currently stable with all replicas being
ready. Given that the deployment is
configured to have 2 replicas, the
threshold should ensure that both replicas
are ready to maintain the steady state. To
account for some fluctuations, we can set a
tolerance that allows for a brief period
where not all replicas are ready, but the
system should recover quickly. A reasonable
threshold would be to have at least 1 ready
replica 100% of the time and both replicas
ready at least 80% of the time during the
monitoring period. This ensures that the
system remains operational even if one
replica temporarily becomes unavailable.
At least 1 ready replica 100% of the time
and 2 ready replicas at least 80% of the
time during the monitoring period.
Unit test to validate the steady state
To verify the steady state of the
'carts-db' deployment, I will write a unit
test that checks the number of ready
replicas over a specified duration. The
test will ensure that there is at least 1
ready replica 100% of the time and 2 ready
replicas at least 80% of the time. I will
implement a loop that checks the status
every second for the specified duration and
use assertions to validate the threshold
conditions. The test will be run from the
command line with a '--duration' argument
to specify the monitoring period.
```
import os
import time
import argparse
from kubernetes import client, config
from unittest_base import K8sAPIBase
class TestCartsDBReplicas(K8sAPIBase):
def __init__(self, namespace='sock-shop',
deployment_name='carts-db', duration=5):
super().__init__()
self.namespace = namespace
self.deployment_name = deployment_name
self.duration = duration
def test_replicas_threshold(self):
99
===== PAGE 100 =====
# Initialize counters for ready replicas
total_checks = 0
ready_replicas_count = 0
fully_ready_replicas_count = 0
for _ in range(self.duration):
try:
# Read the deployment status
deployment =
self.v1.read_namespaced_deployment(
self.deployment_name,
self.namespace)
replicas =
deployment.status.replicas
ready_replicas =
deployment.status.ready_replicas
print(f"Total replicas: {replicas},
Ready replicas: {ready_replicas}")
# Increment the total checks
total_checks += 1
# Check if at least 1 replica is
ready
if ready_replicas >= 1:
ready_replicas_count += 1
# Check if both replicas are ready
if ready_replicas == 2:
fully_ready_replicas_count += 1
except client.exceptions.ApiException
as e:
print(f"Exception when calling
AppsV1Api->read_namespaced_deployment:
{e}")
# Wait for 1 second before the next
check
time.sleep(1)
# Calculate the percentage of time
conditions are met
one_ready_percentage =
(ready_replicas_count / total_checks) *
100
two_ready_percentage =
(fully_ready_replicas_count /
total_checks) * 100
# Assert the threshold conditions
assert one_ready_percentage == 100, "At
least 1 ready replica was not available
100% of the time."
assert two_ready_percentage >= 80, "2
ready replicas were not available at
least 80% of the time."
print("Test passed: Steady state
conditions are satisfied.")
def main():
parser =
argparse.ArgumentParser(description='Test
carts-db replicas threshold')
parser.add_argument('--duration',
type=int, default=5, help='Duration to
check the replicas')
args = parser.parse_args()
# Create an instance of the test class
with the specified duration
test =
TestCartsDBReplicas(duration=args.duration)
# Run the test
test.test_replicas_threshold()
if __name__ == '__main__':
main()
```
Pod unittestcarts-db-replicasmod0-pod has
failed.
```
Traceback (most recent call last):
File
"/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241127_043136/
hypothesis/unittest_carts-db-replicas
_mod0.py", line 68, in <module>
main()
File
"/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241127_043136/
hypothesis/unittest_carts-db-replicas
_mod0.py", line 64, in main
test.test_replicas_threshold()
File
"/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241127_043136/
hypothesis/unittest_carts-db-replicas
_mod0.py", line 23, in
test_replicas_threshold
deployment =
self.v1.read_namespaced_deployment(
self.deployment_name, self.namespace)
AttributeError: 'CoreV1Api' object has no
attribute 'read_namespaced_deployment'. Did
you mean: 'read_namespaced_event'?
```
The error occurs because the 'CoreV1Api'
object does not have a method called
'read_namespaced_deployment'. The correct
API to use for reading deployments is
'AppsV1Api'. I will fix the error by
changing the API client from 'CoreV1Api' to
'AppsV1Api' in the 'K8sAPIBase' class
initialization. This will allow the test to
correctly access the deployment information.
```
import os
import time
import argparse
from kubernetes import client, config
from unittest_base import K8sAPIBase
class TestCartsDBReplicas(K8sAPIBase):
def __init__(self, namespace='sock-shop',
deployment_name='carts-db', duration=5):
super().__init__()
self.namespace = namespace
self.deployment_name = deployment_name
self.duration = duration
# Use the correct API client for
deployments
self.apps_v1 = client.AppsV1Api()
def test_replicas_threshold(self):
# Initialize counters for ready replicas
total_checks = 0
ready_replicas_count = 0
fully_ready_replicas_count = 0
for _ in range(self.duration):
try:
# Read the deployment status using
the correct API client
deployment =
self.apps_v1.read_namespaced_deployment(
self.deployment_name,
self.namespace)
replicas =
deployment.status.replicas
ready_replicas =
deployment.status.ready_replicas
print(f"Total replicas: {replicas},
Ready replicas: {ready_replicas}")
# Increment the total checks
total_checks += 1
# Check if at least 1 replica is
ready
if ready_replicas >= 1:
ready_replicas_count += 1
# Check if both replicas are ready
if ready_replicas == 2:
fully_ready_replicas_count += 1
100
===== PAGE 101 =====
except client.exceptions.ApiException
as e:
print(f"Exception when calling
AppsV1Api->read_namespaced_deployment:
{e}")
# Wait for 1 second before the next
check
time.sleep(1)
# Calculate the percentage of time
conditions are met
one_ready_percentage =
(ready_replicas_count / total_checks) *
100
two_ready_percentage =
(fully_ready_replicas_count /
total_checks) * 100
# Assert the threshold conditions
assert one_ready_percentage == 100, "At
least 1 ready replica was not available
100% of the time."
assert two_ready_percentage >= 80, "2
ready replicas were not available at
least 80% of the time."
print("Test passed: Steady state
conditions are satisfied.")
def main():
parser =
argparse.ArgumentParser(description='Test
carts-db replicas threshold')
parser.add_argument('--duration',
type=int, default=5, help='Duration to
check the replicas')
args = parser.parse_args()
# Create an instance of the test class
with the specified duration
test =
TestCartsDBReplicas(duration=args.duration)
# Run the test
test.test_replicas_threshold()
if __name__ == '__main__':
main()
```
Pod unittestcarts-db-replicasmod1-pod has
completed sucessfully.
The inspection script's results (current
states) are as follows:
```
Total replicas: 2, Ready replicas: 2
Total replicas: 2, Ready replicas: 2
Total replicas: 2, Ready replicas: 2
Total replicas: 2, Ready replicas: 2
Total replicas: 2, Ready replicas: 2
Test passed: Steady state conditions are
satisfied.
```
Steady state #2: front-end-replica
Description
The next issue to address is the 'Single
Replica Deployment' for the 'front-end'
deployment. This is a critical issue
because having only one replica can lead to
downtime if the pod fails. To ensure the
system's steady state, we need to verify
that the 'front-end' deployment maintains
at least one running pod at all times. This
can be measured by checking the number of
running pods for the 'front-end'
deployment. Given that the deployment is
configured to have only 1 replica, the
threshold should ensure that this single
replica is always ready to maintain the
steady state. A reasonable threshold would
be to have at least 1 ready replica 100% of
the time during the monitoring period. This
ensures that the system remains operational
even if there are
temporary issues with the pod.
Current state inspection
To inspect the 'front-end-replica' state, I
will use the K8s API to check the number of
ready replicas for the 'front-end'
deployment in the 'sock-shop' namespace.
This is because the task involves verifying
the number of running pods, which is a
Kubernetes resource state check. The K8s
API is suitable for this purpose as it
allows us to directly query the deployment
status and ensure that the single replica
is always ready. The script will run for a
duration of 5 seconds, checking the status
every second, to ensure the deployment
maintains at least one ready replica 100%
of the time.
tool: k8s duration: 5s
Inspection script (Python)
k8s_front-end-replica.py :
```
import os
import time
import argparse
from kubernetes import client, config
def check_front_end_replicas(namespace,
deployment_name, duration):
# Load Kubernetes configuration based on
the environment
if os.getenv('KUBERNETES_SERVICE_HOST'):
config.load_incluster_config()
else:
config.load_kube_config()
v1 = client.AppsV1Api()
ready_replicas_count = 0
for _ in range(duration):
resp =
v1.read_namespaced_deployment_status(
deployment_name, namespace)
ready_replicas =
resp.status.ready_replicas or 0
print(f"Ready replicas for
{deployment_name}: {ready_replicas}")
if ready_replicas >= 1:
ready_replicas_count += 1
time.sleep(1)
print(f"{deployment_name} was ready
{ready_replicas_count}/{duration} times.")
if __name__ == '__main__':
parser =
argparse.ArgumentParser(description='Check
front-end replicas')
parser.add_argument('--duration',
type=int, default=5, help='Duration to
check the replicas')
args = parser.parse_args()
check_front_end_replicas('sock-shop',
'front-end', args.duration)
```
Pod k8sfront-end-replica-pod has been
completed successfully.
The inspection script's results (current
states) are as follows:
```
Ready replicas for front-end: 1
Ready replicas for front-end: 1
Ready replicas for front-end: 1
Ready replicas for front-end: 1
Ready replicas for front-end: 1
front-end was ready 5/5 times.
```
101
===== PAGE 102 =====
Threshold
The steady state we are considering is the
availability of the 'front-end' deployment,
which currently has only one replica. The
current state shows that the 'front-end'
deployment has 1 ready replica consistently
over a monitoring period of 5 seconds. To
ensure the system remains operational, the
threshold should be set such that the
'front-end' deployment maintains at least 1
ready replica 100% of the time during the
monitoring period. This accounts for the
fact that there is only one replica, and
any downtime would mean the service is
unavailable. Given the current state
satisfies this condition, the threshold
should be set to ensure that at least 1
ready replica is present 100% of the time
during the monitoring period.
At least 1 ready replica must be present
100% of the time during the monitoring
period.
Unit test to validate the steady state
To verify the steady state of the
'front-end' deployment, I will write a unit
test that checks if there is at least 1
ready replica 100% of the time during the
specified monitoring period. The test will
use a for-loop to check the status every
second for the given duration. The
threshold is set to ensure that the
'front-end' deployment maintains at least 1
ready replica 100% of the time, which means
the number of times the ready replicas are
1 or more should equal the duration. I will
use the Kubernetes Python API to interact
with the cluster and check the deployment
status. The test will include an assertion
to verify that the steady state satisfies
the threshold, and it will print a summary
of the results at the end.
```
import os
import time
import argparse
from kubernetes import client, config
from unittest_base import K8sAPIBase
class TestFrontEndReplica(K8sAPIBase):
def __init__(self, namespace,
deployment_name, duration):
super().__init__()
self.namespace = namespace
self.deployment_name = deployment_name
self.duration = duration
def test_steady_state(self):
ready_replicas_count = 0
# Loop for the specified duration
for _ in range(self.duration):
# Get the deployment status
resp =
self.v1.read_namespaced_deployment_status(
self.deployment_name,
self.namespace)
ready_replicas =
resp.status.ready_replicas or 0
print(f"Ready replicas for
{self.deployment_name}:
{ready_replicas}")
# Check if the number of ready
replicas is at least 1
if ready_replicas >= 1:
ready_replicas_count += 1
# Wait for 1 second before the next
check
time.sleep(1)
# Calculate the percentage of time the
deployment was ready
readiness_percentage =
(ready_replicas_count / self.duration)
* 100
print(f"{self.deployment_name} was
ready
{ready_replicas_count}/{self.duration}
times.")
# Assert that the deployment was ready
100% of the time
assert readiness_percentage == 100,
f"{self.deployment_name} readiness was
{readiness_percentage}%, expected 100%."
def main():
parser =
argparse.ArgumentParser(description='Test
front-end replica readiness')
parser.add_argument('--duration',
type=int, default=5, help='Duration to
check the replicas')
args = parser.parse_args()
# Create a test instance and run the test
test = TestFrontEndReplica('sock-shop',
'front-end', args.duration)
test.test_steady_state()
if __name__ == '__main__':
main()
```
Pod unittestfront-end-replicamod0-pod has
failed.
```
Traceback (most recent call last):
File
"/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241127_043136/
hypothesis/unittest_front-end-replica
_mod0.py", line 50, in <module>
main()
File
"/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241127_043136/
hypothesis/unittest_front-end-replica
_mod0.py\", line 46, in main
test.test_steady_state()
File
\"/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241127_043136/
hypothesis/unittest_front-end-replica
_mod0.py\", line 20, in
test_steady_state
resp =
self.v1.read_namespaced_deployment_status(
self.deployment_name, self.namespace)
AttributeError: 'CoreV1Api' object has no
attribute
'read_namespaced_deployment_status'. Did
you mean: 'read_namespaced_pod_status'?
```
The error occurs because the CoreV1Api
class does not have a method called
read_namespaced_deployment_status .
Instead, the correct class to use for
reading deployment status is AppsV1Api . I
will fix the error by changing the API
client from CoreV1Api to AppsV1Api in the
K8sAPIBase class. This will allow the test
to correctly
call the read_namespaced_deployment_status
method and check the deployment status. The
rest of the test logic remains the same,
ensuring that the deployment maintains at
least 1 ready replica 100% of the time
during the specified duration.
```
import os
import time
import argparse
from kubernetes import client, config
from unittest_base import K8sAPIBase
class TestFrontEndReplica(K8sAPIBase):
102
===== PAGE 103 =====
def __init__(self, namespace,
deployment_name, duration):
super().__init__()
self.namespace = namespace
self.deployment_name = deployment_name
self.duration = duration
# Use AppsV1Api to interact with
deployments
self.apps_v1 = client.AppsV1Api()
def test_steady_state(self):
ready_replicas_count = 0
# Loop for the specified duration
for _ in range(self.duration):
# Get the deployment status
resp = self.apps_v1
.read_namespaced_deployment_status(
self.deployment_name,
self.namespace)
ready_replicas =
resp.status.ready_replicas or 0
print(f"Ready replicas for
{self.deployment_name}:
{ready_replicas}")
# Check if the number of ready
replicas is at least 1
if ready_replicas >= 1:
ready_replicas_count += 1
# Wait for 1 second before the next
check
time.sleep(1)
# Calculate the percentage of time the
deployment was ready
readiness_percentage =
(ready_replicas_count / self.duration)
* 100
print(f"{self.deployment_name} was
ready
{ready_replicas_count}/{self.duration}
times.")
# Assert that the deployment was ready
100% of the time
assert readiness_percentage == 100,
f"{self.deployment_name} readiness was
{readiness_percentage}%, expected 100%."
def main():
parser =
argparse.ArgumentParser(description='Test
front-end replica readiness')
parser.add_argument('--duration',
type=int, default=5, help='Duration to
check the replicas')
args = parser.parse_args()
# Create a test instance and run the test
test = TestFrontEndReplica('sock-shop',
'front-end', args.duration)
test.test_steady_state()
if __name__ == '__main__':
main()
```
Pod unittestfront-end-replicamod1-pod has
completed sucessfully.
The inspection script's results (current
states) are as follows:
```
Ready replicas for front-end: 1
Ready replicas for front-end: 1
Ready replicas for front-end: 1
Ready replicas for front-end: 1
Ready replicas for front-end: 1
front-end was ready 5/5 times.
```
Failure scenario: Black Friday Sale
Description
During a Black Friday sale, the system is
expected to handle a significant increase
in traffic, which can stress the system's
resources and reveal weaknesses. The
'carts-db' deployment lacks resource
requests, which can lead to scheduling
issues under resource pressure. The
'front-end' deployment has only one
replica, making it a single point of
failure. To simulate the Black Friday
event, we will first inject a 'StressChaos'
fault to simulate high CPU usage on the
'carts-db' pods, testing if the system can
maintain the steady state of having at
least 1 ready replica 100% of the time and
2 ready replicas 80% of the time. Next, we
will inject a 'PodChaos' fault to kill the
'front-end' pod, testing if the system can
maintain the steady state of having at
least 1 ready replica 100% of the time.
This sequence simulates the increased load
and potential failures
during a high-traffic event like Black
Friday.
Failure-injection sequence
StressChaos ({'namespace': 'sock-shop',
'label': 'name=carts-db'}) -> PodChaos
({'namespace': 'sock-shop', 'label':
'name=front-end'})
Detailed failure parameters
Detailed parameters of StressChaos
({'namespace': 'sock-shop', 'label':
'name=carts-db'})
```
{
"mode": "all",
"selector": {
"namespaces": [
"sock-shop"
],
"labelSelectors": {
"name": "carts-db"
},
"stressors": {
"cpu": {
"workers": 2,
"load": 80
}
},
"containerNames": [
"carts-db"
]
}
}
```
Detailed parameters of PodChaos
({'namespace': 'sock-shop', 'label':
'name=front-end'})
```
{
"action": "pod-kill",
"mode": "one",
"selector":{
"namespaces": ["sock-shop"],
"labelSelectors": {
"name": "front-end"
}
},
"value": "1"
}
```
103
===== PAGE 104 =====
Chaos experiment (Planning)
Time Schedule
The chaos engineering experiment is
designed to test the system's resilience
under stress conditions and potential
failures. Given the constraints, the
experiment must be completed within 1
minute. The experiment is divided into
three phases: pre-validation,
fault-injection, and post-validation.
1. Pre-validation Phase: This phase ensures
that the system is in a steady state before
any faults are injected. We will allocate
20 seconds for this phase. During this
time, we will verify that the 'carts-db'
deployment maintains at least 1 ready
replica 100% of the time and 2 ready
replicas 80% of the time, and that the
'front-end' deployment maintains at least 1
ready replica 100% of the time.
2. Fault-injection Phase: This phase
involves injecting faults to simulate the
Black Friday event. We will allocate 20
seconds for this phase. The faults include
a 'StressChaos' fault to simulate high CPU
usage on the 'carts-db' pods and a
'PodChaos' fault to kill the 'front-end'
pod. These faults will test the system's
ability
to maintain the defined steady states under
stress and failure conditions.
3. Post-validation Phase: This phase
ensures that the system returns to its
steady state after the faults are removed.
We will allocate 20 seconds for this phase.
During this time, we will again verify the
steady states for the 'carts-db' and
'front-end' deployments to ensure they meet
the defined thresholds.
The total time for the experiment is 60
seconds, with each phase receiving an equal
allocation of 20 seconds. This allocation
allows for a balanced approach to
validating the system's steady state,
injecting faults, and confirming recovery.
Total experiment time: 60s
Pre-validation Phase: 20s
Fault-injection Phase: 20s
Post-validation Phase: 20s
Pre-validation Phase
In the pre-validation phase, we need to
ensure that the system is in a steady state
before we introduce any faults. This
involves verifying that the current state
of the system meets the defined steady
state thresholds. Given the constraints of
a 20-second total time for this phase, we
will execute the unit tests for both steady
states simultaneously to maximize
efficiency. The first steady state,
'carts-db-replicas requires checking that
at least 1 replica is ready 100% of the
time and 2 replicas are ready at least 80%
of the time. The second steady state,
'front-end-replica', requires ensuring that
the single replica is ready 100% of the
time. Both tests will run for the full 20
seconds, with checks occurring every
second. This approach ensures that we have
sufficient data to confirm the system's
readiness before proceeding to the fault
injection phase.
- Verified Steady State #0:
carts-db-replicas
- Workflow Name:
pre-unittest-carts-db-replicas
- Grace Period: 0s
- Duration: 20s
- Verified Steady State #1:
front-end-replica
- Workflow Name:
pre-unittest-front-end-replica
- Grace Period: 0s
- Duration: 20s
Failure-injection Phase
In this fault-injection phase, we aim to
simulate a Black Friday sale scenario by
introducing two types of faults:
'StressChaos' and 'PodChaos'. The goal is
to observe how the system behaves under
stress and potential failure conditions.
The phase is limited to 20 seconds, so we
need to carefully time the injections and
tests to fit within this window.
First, we will inject a 'StressChaos' fault
on the 'carts-db' deployment to simulate
high CPU usage. This will help us test the
system's ability to maintain the steady
state of having at least 1 ready replica
100% of the time and 2 ready replicas 80%
of the time. We will start this fault
injection immediately at the beginning of
the phase and let it run for 10 seconds.
Simultaneously, we will run the unit test
for the 'carts-db-replicas' steady state to
verify if the system can maintain the
required number of ready replicas during
the stress period. This test will also
start at the beginning of the phase and run
for 10 seconds.
Next, we will inject a 'PodChaos' fault to
kill the 'front-end' pod. This will test
the system's ability to maintain the steady
state of having at least 1 ready replica
100% of the time for the 'front-end'
deployment. We will start this fault
injection at the 10-second mark and let it
run for 5 seconds.
Finally, we will run the unit test for the
'front-end-replica' steady state to verify
if the system can maintain the required
readiness during the pod failure. This test
will start at the 10-second mark and run
for 5 seconds.
By staggering the fault injections and unit
tests in this manner, we can effectively
simulate the Black Friday scenario and
assess the system's resilience under stress
and failure conditions.
- Verified Steady State #0:
carts-db-replicas
- Workflow Name:
fault-unittest-carts-db-replicas
- Grace Period: 0s
- Duration: 10s
- Verified Steady State #1:
front-end-replica
- Workflow Name:
fault-unittest-front-end-replica
- Grace Period: 10s
- Duration: 5s
- Injected Faults #0: StressChaos
- Workflow Name: fault-stresschaos
- Grace Period: 0s
- Duration: 10s
- Injected Faults #1: PodChaos
- Workflow Name: fault-podchaos
- Grace Period: 10s
- Duration: 5s
Post-validation Phase
In the post-validation phase, we need to
104
===== PAGE 105 =====
ensure that the system has returned to its
steady states after the fault injection.
The steady states we are concerned with are
the 'carts-db-replicas' and
'front-end-replica'. The post-validation
phase will involve running unit tests to
verify these steady states. Given the total
time of 20 seconds for this phase, we will
stagger the unit tests to ensure both
steady states are verified within
this timeframe.
The 'carts-db-replicas' steady state
requires that at least 1 ready replica is
available 100% of the time and 2 ready
replicas are available at least 80% of the
time. We will allocate 10 seconds for this
test, with a grace period of 0 seconds, as
we want to immediately verify the recovery
of the 'carts-db' deployment after the
stress test.
The 'front-end-replica' steady state
requires that at least 1 ready replica is
available 100% of the time. We will
allocate the remaining 10 seconds for this
test, also with a grace period of 0
seconds, to ensure the 'front-end'
deployment has recovered from the pod kill
fault.
By staggering the tests in this manner, we
ensure that both steady states are verified
within the 20-second post-validation phase,
allowing us to confirm that the system has
returned to its expected operational state.
- Verified Steady State #0: carts-db-replica
- Workflow Name:
post-unittest-carts-db-replicas
- Grace Period: 0s
- Duration: 10s
- Verified Steady State #1:
front-end-replica
- Workflow Name:
post-unittest-front-end-replica
- Grace Period: 0s
- Duration: 10s
Summary
The chaos engineering experiment is
structured into three phases, each lasting
20 seconds, to test the system's
resilience. In the pre-validation phase,
both unit tests for verifying steady states
are executed simultaneously for the entire
20 seconds. The 'carts-db-replicas' test
checks that at least one replica is ready
100% of the time and two replicas are ready
80% of the time, while the
'front-end-replica' test ensures one
replica is ready 100% of the time. In the
fault-injection phase, the 'StressChaos'
fault is injected on the 'carts-db'
deployment to simulate high CPU usage,
starting immediately and lasting for 10
seconds. Concurrently, the
'carts-db-replicas' unit test runs for 10
seconds to verify readiness under stress.
At the 10-second mark, the 'PodChaos' fault
is injected to kill the 'front-end' pod,
lasting for 5 seconds, while the
'front-end-replica' unit test runs for 5
seconds to check readiness during the
fault. In the post-validation
phase, the 'carts-db-replicas' unit test
runs for the first 10 seconds to verify
recovery, followed by the
'front-end-replica' unit test for the next
10 seconds, ensuring both deployments
return to their steady states.
The generated Chaos Mesh workflow manifest:
```
apiVersion: chaos-mesh.org/v1alpha1
kind: Workflow
metadata:
name: chaos-experiment-20241127-045539
spec:
entry: the-entry
templates:
#-------------------------------
# entry point of whole workflow
#-------------------------------
- name: the-entry
templateType: Serial
deadline: 30m45s
children:
- pre-validation-phase
- fault-injection-phase
- post-validation-phase
#-------------------------------------
# Entry point of pre-validation-phase
#-------------------------------------
- name: pre-validation-phase
templateType: Serial
deadline: 10m20s
children:
- pre-validation-parallel-workflows
- name: pre-validation-parallel-workflows
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m20s
children:
- pre-unittest-carts-db-replicas
- pre-unittest-front-end-replica
# Definitions of children of
pre-validation-phase
- name: pre-unittest-carts-db-replicas
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m20s
task:
container:
name:
pre-unittest-carts-db-replicas-container
image: chaos-eater/k8sapi:1.0
imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
command: ["/bin/bash", "-c"]
args: ["python
/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241127
_043136/unittest_carts-db-replicas
_mod0.py --duration 20"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
- name: pre-unittest-front-end-replica
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m20s
task:
container:
name:
pre-unittest-front-end-replica-container
image: chaos-eater/k8sapi:1.0
imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
command: ["/bin/bash", "-c"]
args: ["python
/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241127
_043136/unittest_front-end-replica
_mod0.py --duration 20"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
#--------------------------------------
# Entry point of fault-injection-phase
#--------------------------------------
- name: fault-injection-phase
templateType: Serial
105
===== PAGE 106 =====
deadline: 10m15s
children:
- fault-injection-overlapped-workflows
- name: fault-injection-parallel-workflow
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m10s
children:
- fault-unittest-carts-db-replicas
- fault-stresschaos
- name: fault-injection-suspend-workflow
templateType: Serial
deadline: 5m15s
children:
- fault-injection-suspend
- fault-injection-parallel-workflows
- name: fault-injection-suspend
templateType: Suspend
deadline: 10s
- name: fault-injection-parallel-workflows
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m5s
children:
- fault-unittest-front-end-replica
- fault-podchaos
- name:
fault-injection-overlapped-workflows
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m15s
children:
- fault-injection-parallel-workflow
- fault-injection-suspend-workflow
# Definitions of children of
pre-validation-phase
# unit tests
- name: fault-unittest-carts-db-replicas
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m10s
task:
container:
name:
fault-unittest-carts-db-replicas-container
image: chaos-eater/k8sapi:1.0
imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
command: ["/bin/bash", "-c"]
args: ["python
/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241127
_043136/unittest_carts-db-replicas
_mod0.py --duration 10"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
- name: fault-unittest-front-end-replica
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m5s
task:
container:
name:
fault-unittest-front-end-replica-container
image: chaos-eater/k8sapi:1.0
imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
command: ["/bin/bash", "-c"]
args: ["python
/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241127
_043136/unittest_front-end-replica
_mod0.py --duration 5"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
# fault_injections
- name: fault-stresschaos
templateType: StressChaos
deadline: 10s
stressChaos:
containerNames:
- carts-db
mode: all
selector:
labelSelectors:
name: carts-db
namespaces:
- sock-shop
stressors:
cpu:
load: 80
workers: 2
- name: fault-podchaos
templateType: PodChaos
deadline: 5s
podChaos:
action: pod-kill
mode: one
selector:
labelSelectors:
name: front-end
namespaces:
- sock-shop
value: '1'
#--------------------------------------
# Entry point of post-validation phase
#--------------------------------------
- name: post-validation-phase
templateType: Serial
deadline: 10m10s
children:
- post-validation-parallel-workflows
- name: post-validation-parallel-workflows
templateType: Parallel
deadline: 5m10s
children:
- post-unittest-carts-db-replicas
- post-unittest-front-end-replica
# Definitions of children of
pre-validation-phase
- name: post-unittest-carts-db-replicas
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m10s
task:
container:
name:
post-unittest-carts-db-replicas-container
image: chaos-eater/k8sapi:1.0
imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
command: ["/bin/bash", "-c"]
args: ["python
/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241127
_043136/unittest_carts-db-replicas
_mod0.py --duration 10"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
- name: post-unittest-front-end-replica
templateType: Task
deadline: 5m10s
task:
container:
name:
post-unittest-front-end-replica-container
image: chaos-eater/k8sapi:1.0
imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
command: ["/bin/bash", "-c"]
args: ["python
/chaos-eater/sandbox/cycle_20241127
_043136/unittest_front-end-replica
106
===== PAGE 107 =====
_mod0.py --duration 10"]
volumeMounts:
- name: pvc-volume
mountPath: /chaos-eater
volumes:
- name: pvc-volume
persistentVolumeClaim:
claimName: pvc
```
Analysis
The chaos engineering experiment aimed to
test the resilience of the 'sock-shop'
system under simulated fault conditions,
specifically focusing on the 'carts-db' and
'front-end' deployments. The experiment was
structured into three phases:
pre-validation, fault-injection, and
post-validation. The results indicate that
while the 'carts-db' deployment maintained
its steady state throughout the experiment,
the 'front-end' deployment failed to meet
the expected steady state during both the
fault-injection and post-validation phases.
1. Pre-Validation Phase:
- Both the 'carts-db-replicas' and
'front-end-replica' tests passed,
indicating that the system was in a
stable state before any faults were
injected. This confirms that the initial
configuration of the system was
functioning as expected.
2. Fault-Injected Phase:
- The 'carts-db-replicas' test passed
during the fault-injection phase,
demonstrating that the 'carts-db'
deployment was resilient to the
'StressChaos' fault, which simulated high
CPU usage. This suggests that despite the
lack of resource requests, the 'carts-db'
deployment was able to maintain at least
one ready replica 100% of the time and
two ready replicas 80% of the time.
- The 'front-end-replica' test failed
during the fault-injection phase. The
'PodChaos' fault, which involved killing
the 'front-end' pod, resulted in 0 ready
replicas throughout the test duration.
This failure highlights the critical
issue of having only a single replica for
the 'front-end' deployment, making it a
single point of failure. The system was
unable to recover or maintain
availability when the single pod was
terminated.
3. Post-Validation Phase:
- The 'carts-db-replicas' test continued
to pass in the post-validation phase,
indicating that the 'carts-db' deployment
returned to its steady state after the
fault was removed.
- The 'front-end-replica' test failed
again in the post-validation phase, with
0 ready replicas recorded throughout the
test. This suggests that the 'front-end'
deployment did not recover after the
fault was removed, likely due to the
absence of additional replicas to take
over when the single pod was killed.
Insights and Recommendations :
- The failure of the 'front-end' deployment
to maintain its steady state during and
after the fault-injection phase underscores
the importance of addressing the 'Single
Replica Deployment' issue. To improve
resilience, it is recommended to increase
the number of replicas for the 'front-end'
deployment. This will ensure that the
system can maintain availability even if
one pod fails.
- Consider implementing horizontal pod
autoscaling for the 'front-end' deployment
to dynamically adjust the number of
replicas based on traffic and resource
usage. This can help the system handle
sudden spikes in demand, such as those
experienced during events like Black Friday.
- Review and potentially adjust the
readiness and liveness probes for the
'front-end' deployment to ensure that
Kubernetes can accurately determine the
health of the pods and take corrective
actions if necessary.
By addressing these issues, the system's
resilience can be significantly improved,
reducing the
risk of downtime during high-traffic events
and fault scenarios.
Improvement
To improve the resiliency of the
'front-end' deployment and avoid failures
during fault scenarios, we need to address
the 'Single Replica Deployment' issue. The
simplest reconfiguration is to increase the
number of replicas for the 'front-end'
deployment from 1 to 2. This change will
ensure that there is at least one
additional replica available to handle
traffic if one pod fails, thus maintaining
the steady state of having at least 1 ready
replica 100% of the time.
Modification_type: replace
File name:
sock-shop-2/manifests/09-front-end-dep.yaml
Increase the number of replicas from 1 to 2
to improve resiliency and ensure
availability during pod failures.
```
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
name: front-end
namespace: sock-shop
spec:
replicas: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
name: front-end
template:
metadata:
labels:
name: front-end
spec:
containers:
- name: front-end
image: weaveworksdemos/front-end:0.3.12
resources:
limits:
cpu: 300m
memory: 1000Mi
requests:
cpu: 100m
memory: 300Mi
ports:
- containerPort: 8079
env:
- name: SESSION_REDIS
value: "true"
securityContext:
runAsNonRoot: true
runAsUser: 10001
capabilities:
107
===== PAGE 108 =====
drop:
- all
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
livenessProbe:
httpGet:
path: /
port: 8079
initialDelaySeconds: 300
periodSeconds: 3
readinessProbe:
httpGet:
path: /
port: 8079
initialDelaySeconds: 30
periodSeconds: 3
nodeSelector:
beta.kubernetes.io/os: linux
```
Experiment replanning
Failure scope of StressChaos
The current Kubernetes manifests show that
the 'carts-db' deployment remains unchanged
in terms of its namespace and labels. The
'carts-db' deployment is still in the
'sock-shop' namespace and has the label
'name: carts-db'. Therefore, the scope of
the fault injection, which targets the
'carts-db' pods using the label selector
'name: carts-db' in the 'sock-shop'
namespace, does not need to be adjusted.
The original goal of the chaos experiment,
which is to test the system's resilience
under stress conditions by applying a
'StressChaos' fault to the 'carts-db' pods,
remains valid with the current manifests.
Failure scope of PodChaos
The current Kubernetes manifests show that
the 'front-end' deployment has increased
its replicas from 1 to 2. This change does
not affect the label selectors or
namespace, which remain the same.
Therefore, the scope of the fault
injection, which targets the 'front-end'
pod using the label 'name: front-end' in
the 'sock-shop' namespace, remains valid.
The fault injection will still target one
of the 'front-end' pods, as specified by
the 'mode: one' parameter.
VaC script for steady state #1
The unit test is specifically targeting the
carts-db deployment, which is defined in
the 03-carts-db-dep.yaml manifest. Upon
comparing the previous and reconfigured
manifests for carts-db, there are no
changes in the configuration. The number of
replicas remains the same, and there are no
modifications to the deployment's
specifications that would affect the unit
test. Therefore, the unit test does not
require any adjustments as the reconfigured
manifests do not introduce any changes that
would impact the test's logic or its
threshold conditions.
VaC script for steady state #2
The unit test is targeting the 'front-end'
deployment in the 'sock-shop' namespace. In
the reconfigured manifests, the 'front-end'
deployment has been modified to increase
the number of replicas from 1 to 2.
However, the unit test is designed to
verify that there is at least 1 ready
replica at all times, which is still valid
even with the increased number of replicas.
The test checks for a minimum of 1 ready
replica, and the reconfiguration was likely
done to ensure that this condition is met
more reliably. Therefore, the unit test
does not require any modification, as the
threshold of having at least 1 ready
replica remains unchanged and is still
applicable.
Summary of the completed CE cycle
The Chaos Engineering cycle for the
'sock-shop' system involved a detailed
analysis and testing of the system's
resilience under simulated fault
conditions. The system is composed of
multiple Kubernetes manifests that define
various microservices, such as 'carts',
'catalogue', 'orders', 'payment', and
'user', each with associated deployments
and services.
The primary focus of the experiment was to
address identified resiliency issues,
including missing resource requests, single
replica deployments, missing liveness and
readiness probes, and hardcoded environment
variables.
The experiment was structured into three
phases: pre-validation, fault-injection,
and post-validation, each lasting 20
seconds, to fit within a total duration of
60 seconds. The pre-validation phase
ensured that the system was in a steady
state before any faults were injected. The
fault-injection phase simulated a Black
Friday sale scenario by introducing
'StressChaos' and 'PodChaos' faults to test
the system's behavior under stress and
potential failure conditions. The
post-validation phase verified that the
system returned to its steady state after
the faults were removed.
The initial experiment revealed that while
the 'carts-db' deployment maintained its
steady state throughout, the 'front-end'
deployment failed during the
fault-injection and post-validation phases
due to having only a single replica, which
made it a single point of failure.
This led to a recommendation to increase
the number of replicas for the 'front-end'
deployment to improve resilience.
After modifying the 'front-end' deployment
to have two replicas, a second experiment
was conducted. This time, all unit tests
passed, indicating that the system
successfully maintained its steady states
during and after the fault-injection phase.
The improvements ensured that the system
could handle the simulated high-traffic
event and recover from faults,
demonstrating enhanced resilience and
availability.
E.4 Reviews
Review by Engineer A
Overall: 4
- Effectively identified issues in the
SockShop system.
- The system's resilience and availability
can be significantly improved, reducing the
risk of downtime during high-traffic events
and fault scenarios.
Hypothesis: 4
The hypothesis phase correctly identified
two critical steady-state conditions for
108
===== PAGE 109 =====
SockShop:
- Steady state #1: carts-db-replicas
+ The first issue to address is the
'Missing Resource Requests' for the
'carts-db' deployment. This is a critical
issue because without resource requests,
the pods may not get scheduled if the
cluster is under resource pressure,
leading to potential downtime.
+ At least 1 ready replica 100\% of the
time and 2 ready replicas 80\% of the time
during the monitoring period
- Steady state #2: front-end-replica
+ The next issue to address is the 'Single
Replica Deployment' for the 'front-end'
deployment. This is a critical issue
because having only one replica can lead
to downtime if the pod fails.
+ At least 1 ready replica must be present
100\% of the time during the monitoring
period
Additionally, it is set up considering an
actual failure scenario: During a Black
Friday sale, the system is expected to
handle a significant increase in traffic,
which can stress the system's resources and
reveal weaknesses. However, they did not
account for other potential failure
scenarios such as database issues or
network disruptions, limiting the overall
scope of resiliency testing.
Experiment: 4
- The experiment was structured into three
phases: pre-validation, fault-injection,
and post-validation, each lasting 20
seconds, to fit within a total duration of
60 seconds.
- The pre-validation phase ensured that the
system was in a steady state before any
faults were injected.
- The fault-injection phase simulated a
Black Friday sale scenario by introducing
'StressChaos' and 'PodChaos' faults to test
the system's behavior under stress and
potential failure conditions.
- The post-validation phase verified that
the system returned to its steady state
after the faults were removed.
- The experiment was accurate and
effectively validated the hypothesis.
- Additionally, it is set up considering an
actual failure scenario: Black Friday sale,
but they did not account for other
potential failure scenarios such as
database issues or network disruptions,
limiting the overall scope of resiliency
testing.
Analysis: 5
The analysis phase correctly identified the
single replica issue as the primary cause
of downtime, while the 'carts-db'
deployment maintained its steady state
throughout, the 'front-end' deployment
failed during the fault-injection and
post-validation phases due to having only a
single replica
Meaningful insights for the improvement
- Recommended to increase the number of
replicas for the 'front-end' deployment.
This will ensure that the system can
maintain availability even if one pod fails.
- Consider implementing horizontal pod
autoscaling for the 'front-end' deployment
to dynamically adjust the number of
replicas based on traffic and resource
usage.
- Review and potentially adjust the
readiness and liveness probes for the
'front-end' deployment to ensure that
Kubernetes can accurately determine the
health of the pods and take corrective
actions if necessary.
Improvement: 5
- After modifying the 'front-end'
deployment to have two replicas, a second
experiment was conducted. This time, all
unit tests passed, indicating that the
system successfully maintained its steady
state during and after the fault-injection
phase.
- The improvements ensured that the system
could handle the simulated high-traffic
event and recover from faults,
demonstrating enhanced resilience and
availability.
Review by Engineer B (Translated)
Overall: 3
Reason for positive evaluation:
- Unlike the NGINX case study, SOCKSHOP is
composed of multiple microservices, which
increases the complexity of each chaos
engineering process. However, the process
has been automated, allowing for a
streamlined workflow.
Room for improvement:
- Since SOCKSHOP is composed of multiple
microservices, it would be beneficial to
explore more complex scenarios where
individual microservices interact with each
other. This could help uncover issues that
are difficult to detect during normal
operations-for example, the impact of a
specific microservice failure or the
system-wide effects caused by delays in a
particular service.
Hypothesis: 4
Reason for positive evaluation:
- The steady-state conditions and failure
scenarios (such as a significant increase
in system traffic during a Black Friday
sale) are specifically and concretely
considered.
Room for improvement:
- While the 'carts-db' and 'front-end'
microservices were highlighted as important
components, it would be helpful to
understand the relative importance of the
other microservices as well.
Experiment: 4
Reason for positive evaluation:
- In the fault injection phase,
'StressChaos' and 'PodChaos' were used to
simulate the Black Friday sale scenario.
Room for improvement:
- It would be even better if
vulnerabilities, database issues, network
failures, and compound failures were also
taken into consideration.
Analysis: 4
Reason for positive evaluation
- The analysis identified that the
'front-end' service has only a single
replica, highlighting it as a single point
of failure.
- All the recommendations provided under
Insights and Recommendations are effective
and well thought out.
Improvement: 5
Reason for positive evaluation:
- A solution was proposed to increase the
number of replicas for deployments with a
single replica, in order to prevent
downtime.
109
===== PAGE 110 =====
Room for improvement:
- It would be helpful if manifest files
were also prepared for the other
recommendations listed in the Insights and
Recommendations section of the ANALYSIS,
beyond just increasing the number of
replicas.
- Regarding the resiliency
issues/weaknesses in the pre-processed
manifests, such as the lack of resource
requests and the absence of liveness and
readiness probes, it would be beneficial if
improved manifests were proposed where all
Deployment resources are configured with
resources, livenessProbe, and
readinessProbe.
- For the issue of hardcoded environment
variables (e.g., passwords), which was
pointed out as a potential security
vulnerability under "Resiliency
Issues/Weaknesses in the Pre-processed
Manifests," it would be valuable if a
solution like using Kubernetes Secrets was
proposed.
Review by GPT-4o
Overall: 4
The Chaos Engineering cycle effectively
identifies and addresses critical issues,
leading to improved system resilience.
Strengths:
- Successfully identifies and addresses
critical issues in the system.
- Provides meaningful insights for future
cycles.
- Well-structured experiment with clear
objectives and phases.
- Effective use of Chaos Mesh for automated
fault injection.
- Demonstrates a clear understanding of the
system's architecture and needs.
Weaknesses:
- Limited focus on only two components,
potentially missing other critical areas.
- Could include more diverse fault
scenarios for broader testing.
- The cycle could explore more potential
improvements beyond the immediate issues.
- Limited exploration of network-related
issues or external factors.
- Recommendations could be more detailed
and specific.
Reason for the score:
The cycle fixes critical issues in the
system and offers meaningful insights for
the next cycle, but could be more
comprehensive in its scope and
recommendations.
Hypothesis: 4
The hypothesis aims to ensure that the
system maintains its steady states even
when faults are injected, focusing on the
'carts-db' and 'front-end' deployments.
Strengths:
- Clearly defines the steady states for
'carts-db' and 'front-end'.
- Provides specific thresholds for
evaluating the steady states.
- Utilizes Python scripts with K8s API for
precise monitoring.
- Addresses critical issues like missing
resource requests and single replica
deployment.
- Considers realistic fault scenarios like
Black Friday sales.
Weaknesses:
- The hypothesis could benefit from more
detailed consideration of other potential
failure points.
- It assumes the system's current
configuration is optimal without exploring
other potential improvements.
- The hypothesis does not account for
network-related issues that could affect
steady states.
- The focus is limited to only two
components, potentially overlooking other
critical parts of the system.
- The hypothesis could include more diverse
fault scenarios to test broader system
resilience.
Reason for the score:
The hypothesis is relevant and meaningful,
addressing critical issues and leading to
system improvement. It offers insights for
the next cycle, but could be expanded to
cover more components and scenarios.
Experiment: 4
The experiment is well-structured into
three phases: pre-validation,
fault-injection, and post-validation, each
lasting 20 seconds.
Strengths:
- Clearly defined phases with specific
objectives.
- Efficient use of time within the 1-minute
constraint.
- Simultaneous execution of unit tests for
efficiency.
- Use of Chaos Mesh for automated fault
injection.
- Comprehensive coverage of both steady
states during all phases.
Weaknesses:
- The experiment could include more diverse
fault types to test different aspects of
system resilience.
- Limited to only two components,
potentially missing other critical areas.
- The 20-second allocation per phase may
not be sufficient for more complex systems.
- The experiment does not account for
potential network delays or other external
factors.
- The use of only two fault types may not
fully simulate real-world scenarios.
Reason for the score:
The experiment plan correctly serves to
validate the hypothesis and considers
actual failure scenarios, but could be
improved by including more diverse faults
and components.
Analysis: 4
The analysis identifies the resilience of
'carts-db' and the failure of 'front-end'
during fault injection, providing insights
for improvement.
Strengths:
- Provides a clear breakdown of results for
each phase.
- Identifies the critical issue of single
replica deployment for 'front-end'.
- Offers actionable recommendations for
improvement.
- Highlights the resilience of 'carts-db'
under stress.
- Uses detailed logs to support findings.
Weaknesses:
- The analysis could explore more potential
causes for the 'front-end' failure.
- Limited focus on only two components,
110
===== PAGE 111 =====
potentially missing other issues.
- Could include more quantitative data to
support findings.
- The analysis does not consider external
factors that may have influenced results.
- Recommendations could be more detailed
and specific.
Reason for the score:
The analysis reports correct and meaningful
information, providing insights for
improvement, but could be more
comprehensive in exploring other potential
issues.
Improvement: 5
The improvement involved increasing the
number of replicas for the 'front-end'
deployment, successfully addressing the
single point of failure issue.
Strengths:
- Directly addresses the critical issue
identified in the analysis.
- Successfully changes the system to
satisfy the hypothesis.
- Simple yet effective solution to improve
resilience.
- Demonstrates a clear understanding of the
system's needs.
- Results in successful unit tests in the
second experiment.
Weaknesses:
- The improvement is limited to only one
component, potentially overlooking other
areas.
- Could consider additional improvements
like autoscaling for further resilience.
- Does not address other potential issues
identified in the hypothesis.
- The improvement could be more
comprehensive, considering other components.
- Limited exploration of alternative
solutions.
Reason for the score:
The improvement successfully changes the
system to satisfy the hypothesis in the
first attempt, but could be more
comprehensive in addressing other potential
issues.
Review by Claude Sonnet 3.5
Overall: 4
This Chaos Engineering cycle successfully
identified and addressed a critical
resilience issue in the sock-shop
application. It focused on the 'carts-db'
and 'front-end' deployments, simulating a
Black Friday sale scenario with increased
CPU load and pod failures.
Strengths:
- Well-structured experiment with clear
phases and relevant fault injections
- Effective use of Chaos Mesh for automated
execution
- Successful identification of a critical
single point of failure
- Quick and effective improvement that
resolved the issue
Weaknesses:
- Limited scope - only focused on two
components of the system
- Short duration of experiment phases
- Did not address all identified issues,
such as missing resource requests
Reason for the score:
The cycle successfully identified and fixed
a critical issue in the system, improving
its resilience to pod failures. The
improvement directly resulted from the
insights gained through the chaos
experiment. While the cycle was successful
in its primary goal, it did not address all
identified issues and had a limited scope,
preventing it from receiving the highest
score.
Hypothesis: 4
The hypothesis aims to verify that the
system maintains its steady states even
when subjected to fault scenarios
simulating a Black Friday sale event. It
focuses on two key components: the
'carts-db' deployment and the 'front-end'
deployment.
Strengths:
- Clear definition of steady states for
both 'carts-db' and 'front-end' deployments
- Specific thresholds set for each steady
state
- Consideration of real-world scenario
(Black Friday sale)
-Use of custom Python scripts with K8s API
for verification
Weaknesses:
- Limited scope - only focuses on two
components of the system
- Does not consider potential cascading
effects on other services
- Thresholds may not be stringent enough
for a high-traffic event like Black Friday",
Reason for the score:
The hypothesis is well-defined and relevant
to the system, addressing critical issues
identified in the initial analysis. It
leads to system improvement by highlighting
the need for increased replicas in the
front-end deployment. The hypothesis also
offers insights for future improvements,
such as considering resource requests for
other components. However, it could be more
comprehensive by including other critical
services in the sock-shop application.
Experiment: 4
The experiment is designed to test the
system's resilience under simulated Black
Friday conditions, focusing on the
'carts-db' and 'front-end' deployments.
It's structured into three phases:
pre-validation, fault-injection, and
post-validation, each lasting 20 seconds.
Strengths:
- Well-structured experiment with clear
phases
- Use of relevant chaos faults (StressChaos
and PodChaos)
- Parallel execution of tests to maximize
efficiency
- Detailed Chaos-Mesh-Workflow file for
automated execution
Weaknesses:
- Short duration of each phase (20 seconds)
may not be sufficient for thorough testing
- Limited fault scenarios - only tests CPU
stress and pod failure
- Does not include load testing to simulate
actual user traffic
Reason for the score:
The experiment plan is well-designed and
correctly serves to validate the
hypothesis. It uses actual failure
scenarios (CPU stress and pod failure) that
are relevant to a high-traffic event. The
use of Chaos Mesh for automated execution
111
===== PAGE 112 =====
is a strong point. However, the short
duration and limited scope of fault
scenarios prevent it from being scored a 5.
Analysis: 5
The analysis report provides a
comprehensive overview of the experiment
results, highlighting the success of the
'carts-db' deployment in maintaining its
steady state and the initial failure of the
'front-end' deployment to meet its steady
state during fault injection and
post-validation phases.
Strengths:
- Detailed breakdown of results for each
phase of the experiment
- Clear identification of the root cause of
failure (single replica for front-end)
- Insightful recommendations for improvement
- Consideration of both immediate fixes and
long-term enhancements
Weaknesses:
- Limited analysis of potential impacts on
other system components
- No quantitative analysis of the
performance degradation
- Lack of discussion on potential
trade-offs of the proposed improvements
Reason for the score:
The analysis provides correct and
meaningful information about the experiment
results. It offers valuable insights for
improvement, particularly the
recommendation to increase the number of
replicas for the front-end deployment. The
analysis directly leads to a system
improvement that addresses the identified
weakness.
Improvement: 5
Based on the analysis, the improvement
focused on addressing the single point of
failure in the front-end deployment. The
number of replicas for the front-end
deployment was increased from 1 to 2 in the
Kubernetes manifest.
Strengths:
- Direct address of the identified issue
- Simple and effective solution
- Immediate improvement in system resilience
= Successful validation in the second
experiment run
Weaknesses:
- Only addresses one of the identified
issues
- Does not implement more advanced
solutions like horizontal pod autoscaling
- No changes made to improve resource
management for other components
Reason for the score:
The improvement successfully changes the
system to satisfy the hypothesis in the
first attempt. The modification to increase
the number of front-end replicas directly
addresses the identified weakness and
results in the system passing all unit
tests in the second experiment run.
Review by Gemini 1.5 Pro
Overall: 4
This Chaos Engineering cycle effectively
identifies and addresses a critical
vulnerability in the 'front-end' deployment
of the 'sock-shop' application. The cycle
demonstrates a clear progression through
the hypothesis, experiment, analysis, and
improvement phases, resulting in a more
resilient system. The use of Chaos Mesh and
automated unit tests strengthens the
experiment and analysis, providing valuable
insights into system behavior under stress
and failure conditions.
Strengths:
- Clearly defined hypothesis and steady
states, focusing on relevant system
weaknesses.
- Well-structured experiment plan with
appropriate use of Chaos Mesh for fault
injection.
- Accurate analysis of experiment results,
correctly identifying the root cause of
failure.
- Effective improvement implemented by
increasing 'front-end' replicas, validated
by subsequent experiment.
- The cycle demonstrates a systematic
approach to improving system resilience.",
Weaknesses:
- Limited scope, focusing only on two
deployments and a single failure scenario.
A broader approach would provide a more
comprehensive understanding of system
resilience.
- Short experiment duration, potentially
missing long-term effects of faults.
- Lack of detailed monitoring and logging
information in the experiment plan.
- Improvement limited to increasing
replicas, not exploring other potential
enhancements like resource requests or
autoscaling.
- Limited consideration of the
interdependencies between services and
potential cascading failures.
Reason for the score:
The cycle fixes a critical issue in the
system ('front-end' single point of
failure) and demonstrates a good
understanding of Chaos Engineering
principles. However, it does not offer
comprehensive insights for the next cycle
due to its limited scope.
Hypothesis: 4
The hypothesis aims to verify the system's
resilience during a simulated Black Friday
sale by focusing on the 'carts-db' and
'front-end' deployments. It posits that the
defined steady states, namely maintaining a
specific number of ready replicas for these
deployments, will be upheld even under
stress and failure conditions induced by
Chaos Mesh.
Strengths:
- Clearly defines the steady states for
both 'carts-db' and 'front-end'
deployments, specifying the desired number
of ready replicas and the timeframes for
measurement.
- Directly addresses identified weaknesses
in the system, namely missing resource
requests for 'carts-db' and single replica
deployment for 'front-end'.
- Provides specific thresholds for each
steady state, allowing for quantifiable
measurement and validation.
- Uses Python scripts with Kubernetes API
calls to automate the verification of
steady states, ensuring consistent and
reliable measurements.
- The chosen fault scenario (Black Friday
sale) is relevant to the application's
context and helps simulate realistic
high-traffic conditions.
Weaknesses:
112
===== PAGE 113 =====
- The hypothesis lacks consideration for
other potential failure scenarios beyond
the simulated Black Friday sale. Exploring
a wider range of faults would provide a
more comprehensive assessment of system
resilience.
- The hypothesis focuses solely on replica
availability and does not consider other
important metrics such as latency, error
rates, or resource consumption.
Incorporating these metrics would provide a
more holistic view of system health.
- The hypothesis does not explicitly state
the expected behavior of the system when
the steady states are violated. Defining
the expected failure modes would help in
analyzing the experiment results and
identifying areas for improvement.
- The hypothesis could benefit from a more
precise definition of the \"monitoring
period\" used in the steady state
thresholds. Specifying the exact duration
and frequency of measurements would enhance
clarity.
- The hypothesis does not consider the
potential impact of the faults on other
services within the 'sock-shop'
application. A more comprehensive approach
would involve analyzing the cascading
effects of failures.
Reason for the score:
The hypothesis is relevant to the system
and meaningful, directly addressing the
identified weaknesses. It also leads to
system improvement by prompting changes to
the 'front-end' deployment. However, it
does not offer comprehensive insights for
the next cycle due to its limited scope and
lack of consideration for other metrics and
failure scenarios.
Experiment: 4
The experiment plan is well-structured,
dividing the process into pre-validation,
fault-injection, and post-validation
phases, each lasting 20 seconds. It uses
Chaos Mesh to simulate a Black Friday sale
scenario by injecting 'StressChaos' on the
'carts-db' deployment and 'PodChaos' on the
'front-end' deployment. The plan includes
running unit tests to verify the defined
steady states before, during, and after
fault injection.
Strengths:
- Clearly defined phases with specific time
allocations, ensuring a structured and
controlled experiment.
- Uses Chaos Mesh, a suitable tool for
Kubernetes environments, to inject
realistic faults.
- Includes both stress testing and failure
injection, covering a range of potential
issues.
- Employs unit tests to automatically
verify steady states, providing objective
and repeatable results.
- The experiment design allows for parallel
execution of tests and fault injections,
maximizing efficiency within the time
constraint.
Weaknesses:
- The experiment focuses solely on two
specific deployments ('carts-db' and
'front-end') and does not consider the
potential impact on other interconnected
services. A more comprehensive approach
would involve analyzing the cascading
effects of failures.
- The experiment duration is relatively
short (1 minute), which may not be
sufficient to observe the long-term effects
of the faults. Extending the experiment
duration would provide more insights into
system behavior.
- The experiment plan lacks details on
monitoring and logging. Specifying which
metrics will be collected and how the logs
will be analyzed would enhance the analysis
phase.
- The experiment plan does not include a
rollback strategy in case the injected
faults cause unexpected or severe
disruptions to the system.
- The experiment relies on specific unit
tests, which may not cover all aspects of
system behavior. Incorporating other
monitoring tools and metrics would provide
a more comprehensive view of system health.
Reason for the score:
The experiment plan correctly serves to
validate the hypothesis and is set up
considering an actual failure scenario
(Black Friday sale). It utilizes
appropriate tools and techniques for fault
injection and steady-state verification.
Analysis: 4
The analysis accurately interprets the
experiment results, correctly identifying
the failure of the 'front-end' deployment
to maintain its steady state during and
after fault injection. It provides insights
into the cause of the failure, attributing
it to the single replica deployment. The
analysis also offers recommendations for
improvement, such as increasing the number
of replicas and implementing horizontal pod
autoscaling.
Strengths:
- Clearly presents the results of each
phase of the experiment, highlighting the
success of 'carts-db' and the failure of
'front-end'.
- Correctly identifies the root cause of
the 'front-end' failure as the single
replica deployment.
- Provides specific and actionable
recommendations for improvement, such as
increasing replicas and using horizontal
pod autoscaling.
- Connects the analysis back to the initial
hypothesis and the identified weaknesses in
the system.
- Offers insights into the resilience of
'carts-db' despite the lack of resource
requests.
Weaknesses:
- The analysis lacks depth in exploring the
behavior of other services during the
experiment. A more comprehensive analysis
would consider the impact on the entire
application.
- The analysis does not include any
visualizations or graphs to represent the
data, which would enhance understanding and
communication of the results.
- The analysis could benefit from a more
detailed explanation of the observed
behavior, including specific metrics and
log data.
- The analysis does not discuss the
potential limitations of the experiment,
such as the short duration or the specific
choice of faults.
- The analysis does not provide specific
metrics or data to support the claims made.
Including quantitative data would
strengthen the analysis.
Reason for the score:
The analysis reports correct and meaningful
information and provides some insights for
improvement. It correctly identifies the
root cause of the 'front-end' failure and
113
===== PAGE 114 =====
suggests appropriate solutions.
Improvement: 4
The improvement phase successfully
addresses the identified issue by
increasing the number of replicas for the
'front-end' deployment from 1 to 2. This
change directly targets the single point of
failure observed in the experiment and aims
to improve the system's resilience.
Strengths:
- Directly addresses the root cause
identified in the analysis phase.
- Implements a simple and effective
solution by increasing the number of
replicas.
- The modification is clearly documented,
including the updated YAML manifest.
- The improvement is validated in a
subsequent experiment, demonstrating its
effectiveness.
- The change improves the overall
resilience of the 'front-end' service.
Weaknesses:
- The improvement focuses solely on
increasing replicas and does not consider
other potential improvements, such as
resource requests or autoscaling.
- The improvement lacks a discussion of
potential trade-offs, such as increased
resource consumption.
- The improvement does not address the lack
of liveness and readiness probes in other
deployments.
- The improvement process could benefit
from a more iterative approach, starting
with smaller changes and gradually
increasing complexity.
- The improvement does not consider the
potential impact on other services within
the application.
Reason for the score:
The improvement successfully changes the
system to satisfy the hypothesis in the
second attempt, demonstrating a clear and
effective response to the identified
weakness.
114